# Readline

*Readline* is the library that handles command line editing in an interactive shell, unless bash is started with `--noediting` option.

Bash and Readline are developed in parallel, by the same person, Chet Remey

* Line editing is also used when using the -e option to the read builtin. 
* By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A vi-style line editing interface is also available. 
* Line editing can be enabled at any time: set -o emacs or set -o vi
* To turn off line editing after the shell has run: set +o emacs or set +o vi

## Notation

* The text C-k is read as Control-K and describes the character produced when the k key is pressed while the Control key is depressed.
* The text M-k is read as Meta-K and describes the character produced when the Meta key (if you have one) is depressed, and the k key is pressed. 
  The Meta key is labeled ALT on many keyboards. 
  If you do not have a Meta or ALT key, or another key working as a Meta key, the identical keystroke can be generated by typing ESC first, 
  and then typing k. Either process is known as metafying the k key.
* The text M-C-k is read as Meta-Control-k and describes the character produced by metafying C-k.

- in init file, these keys have proper names: DEL, ESC, SPC, SPACE, RET, RETURN, LFD, NEWLINE, TAB, RUBOUT
- use C-j instead of the LFD key, RET may be labeled Return or Enter


## Initialization

Readline is customized by putting commands in an initialization file, the inputrc file. 
* Default inputrc file is /etc/inputrc and apples to all users.
* Personal inputrc file is taken from the value of the INPUTRC variable. 
  If that variable is unset, the default is ~/.inputrc
There are only a few basic constructs allowed in the readline inputrc file:
* Blank lines are ignored. 
* Lines beginning with a # are comments. 
* Lines beginning with a $ indicate conditional constructs. 
* Other lines denote key bindings and variable settings. 

Other programs that use this library may add their own commands and bindings. 

For example, placing:
`M-Control-u: universal-argument` or `C-Meta-u: universal-argument`

into `inputrc` would make M-C-u execute the readline command universal-argument. In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro).


## Variables

* `READLINE_LINE` the entire command line
* `READLINE_POINT` zero-based position of cursor on the line

* `READLINE_LINE` contents of the readline line buffer, for use with `bind -x`
* `READLINE_POINT` position of the insertion point in the readline line buffer, for use with `bind -x`
