# stty

Local Modes

The c_lflag field of the argument structure is used to control various functions. It is composed of the bitwise-inclusive OR of the masks shown, which shall be bitwise-distinct. The mask name symbols in this table are defined in <termios.h> .

- echo    enable echo
- echoe   echo erase as an error correcting backspace
- echok   echo kill
- echonl  echo NL
- icanon  canonical input (erase and kill processing)
- iexten  enable extended (implementation-defined) functions
- isig    enable signals
- noflsh  disable flush after interrupt, quit, or suspend
- tostop  send SIGTTOU for background output

ECHO: input characters shall be echoed back to the terminal

ECHOE and ICANON: the ERASE character shall cause the terminal to erase, if possible, the last character in the current line from the display. If there is no character to erase, an implementation may echo an indication that this was the case, or do nothing.

ECHOK and ICANON: the KILL character shall either cause the terminal to erase the line from the display or shall echo the NL character after the KILL character.

ECHONL and ICANON: the NL character shall be echoed even if ECHO is not set.

ICANON: canonical processing shall be enabled. This enables the erase and kill edit functions, and the assembly of input characters into lines delimited by NL, EOF, and EOL (as described in 11.1.6 Canonical Mode Input Processing).

ICANON: if not set, read requests shall be satisfied directly from the input queue. A read shall not be satisfied until at least MIN bytes have been received or the timeout value TIME expired between bytes. The time value represents tenths of a second. See 11.1.7 Non-Canonical Mode Input Processing for more details.

If IEXTEN is set, implementation-defined functions shall be recognized from the input data. It is implementation-defined how IEXTEN being set interacts with ICANON, ISIG, IXON, or IXOFF. If IEXTEN is not set, implementation-defined functions shall not be recognized and the corresponding input characters are processed as described for ICANON, ISIG, IXON, and IXOFF.

If ISIG is set, each input character shall be checked against the special control characters INTR, QUIT, and SUSP. If an input character matches one of these control characters, the function associated with that character shall be performed. If ISIG is not set, no checking shall be done. Thus these special input functions are possible only if ISIG is set.

If NOFLSH is set, the normal flush of the input and output queues associated with the INTR, QUIT, and SUSP characters shall not be done.

If TOSTOP is set, the signal SIGTTOU shall be sent to the process group of a process that tries to write to its controlling terminal if it is not in the foreground process group for that terminal. This signal, by default, stops the members of the process group. Otherwise, the output generated by that process shall be output to the current output stream. If the writing process is ignoring the SIGTTOU signal or the writing thread is blocking the SIGTTOU signal, the process is allowed to produce output, and the SIGTTOU signal shall not be sent.

The initial local control value after open() is implementation-defined.
