 bash | manual


used by bash
BASH_COMPAT
BASH_ENV
BASH_XTRACEFD

CDPATH
CHILD_MAX
COLUMNS
COMPREPLY
EMACS
ENV
FCEDIT
FUNCNEST

HISTCMD
HISTCONTROL
HISTFILE
HISTIGNORE
HISTSIZE
HISTFILESIZE
HISTTIMEFORMAT
histchars

HOME
HOSTFILE
IFS
IGNOREEOF
INPUTRC
LANG
LINES
MAIL
MAILCHECK
MAILPATH
OPTERR
PATH
POSIXLY_CORRECT
PROMPT_COMMAND
PROMPT_DIRTRIM
PS1
PS2
PS3
PS4
SHELL
TIMEFORMAT
TMOUT
TMPDIR
auto_resume




The following variables are used by the shell. 
In some cases, bash assigns a default value to a variable; these cases are noted below.

BASH_COMPAT
The value is used to set the shell's compatibility level. See the description of the shopt builtin below under SHELL BUILTIN COMMANDS for a
description of the various compatibility levels and their effects. The value may be a decimal number (e.g., 4.2) or an integer (e.g., 42) corre‐
sponding to the desired compatibility level. If BASH_COMPAT is unset or set to the empty string, the compatibility level is set to the default
for the current version. If BASH_COMPAT is set to a value that is not one of the valid compatibility levels, the shell prints an error message
and sets the compatibility level to the default for the current version. The valid compatibility levels correspond to the compatibility options
accepted by the shopt builtin described below (for example, compat42 means that 4.2 and 42 are valid values). The current version is also a valid
value.

BASH_ENV
If this parameter is set when bash is executing a shell script, its value is 
interpreted as a filename containing commands to initialize the shell (like ~/.bashrc but only for scripts). 

* The value of BASH_ENV is subjected to parameter expansion, command 
  substitution, and arithmetic expansion before being interpreted as a filename. 
* PATH is not used to search for the resultant filename.
* filename can only contain key=value pairs?


BASH_XTRACEFD
If set to an integer corresponding to a valid file descriptor, bash will write 
the trace output generated when set -x is enabled to that file descriptor.
* The file descriptor is closed when BASH_XTRACEFD is unset or assigned a new value. 
* Unsetting BASH_XTRACEFD or assigning it the empty string causes the trace output to be sent to the standard error. 
* Note that setting BASH_XTRACEFD to 2 (the standard error file descriptor) and then unsetting it will result in the standard error being closed.

CDPATH
The search path for the cd command.
This is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for destination 
directories specified by the cd command. A sample value is ".:~:/usr".

CHILD_MAX
Set the number of exited child status values for the shell to remember. Bash will not allow this value to be decreased below a POSIX-mandated
minimum, and there is a maximum value (currently 8192) that this may not exceed. The minimum value is system-dependent.

COLUMNS
Used by the select compound command to determine the terminal width when printing selection lists. 
Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH.

COMPREPLY
An array variable from which bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function 
invoked by the programmable completion facility. Each array element contains one possible completion.

EMACS 
If bash finds this variable in the environment when the shell starts with value "t", it 
assumes that the shell is running in an Emacs shell buffer and disables line editing.

ENV
Similar to BASH_ENV; used when the shell is invoked in POSIX mode.

FCEDIT 
The default editor for the fc builtin command.



FUNCNEST
If set to a numeric value greater than 0, defines a maximum function nesting level.
Function invocations that exceed this nesting level will cause the current command to abort.






HISTCMD
The history number, or index in the history list, of the current command. 
*** If unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset ***


HISTCONTROL
A colon-separated list of values controlling how commands are saved on the history list. 
* If the list of values includes ignorespace, lines which begin with a space character are not saved in the history list. 
* A value of ignoredups causes lines matching the previous history entry to not be saved.
* A value of ignoreboth is shorthand for ignorespace and ignoredups. 
* A value of erasedups causes all previous lines matching the current line to be removed from the history list before that line is saved. 
* Any value not in the above list is ignored. 
* If HISTCONTROL is unset, or does not include a valid value, all lines read by the 
  shell parser are saved on the history list, subject to the value of HISTIGNORE. 
* The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, 
  and are added to the history regardless of the value of HISTCONTROL.


HISTFILE
The name of the file in which command history is saved. 
* The default value is ~/.bash_history. 
* If unset, the command history is not saved when a shell exits.

HISTIGNORE
A colon-separated list of patterns used to decide which command lines should be saved on the history list. 
* Each pattern is anchored at the beginning of the line and must match the complete line (no implicit `*' is appended). 
* Each pattern is tested against the line after the checks specified by HISTCONTROL are applied.
* In addition to the normal shell pattern matching characters, & matches the previous history line.
  & may be escaped using a backslash; the backslash is removed before attempting a match. 
  The second and subsequent lines of a multi-line compound command are not tested, 
  and are added to the history regardless of the value of HISTIGNORE.


HISTSIZE
The number of commands to remember in the command history. 
* If the value is 0, commands are not saved in the history list.
* Numeric values less than zero result in every command being saved on the history list (there is no limit). 
* The shell sets the default value to 500 after reading any startup files.


HISTFILESIZE
The maximum number of lines contained in the history file. 
* When this variable is assigned a value, the history file is truncated, if necessary, 
  to contain no more than that number of lines by removing the oldest entries. 
* The history file is also truncated to this size after writing it when a shell exits. 
* If the value is 0, the history file is truncated to zero size. 
* Non-numeric values and numeric values less than zero inhibit truncation. 
* The shell sets the default value to the value of HISTSIZE after reading any startup files.


    
HISTTIMEFORMAT
If this variable is set and not null, its value is used as a format string for strftime(3) 
to print the time stamp associated with each history entry displayed by the history builtin. 
* If this variable is set, time stamps are written to the history file so they may be preserved across
  shell sessions. This uses the history comment character to distinguish timestamps from other history lines.



histchars
The two or three characters which control history expansion and tokenization. 
* The first character is the history expansion character, the character which signals the start of a history expansion, normally ! 
* The second character is the quick substitution character, which is used as shorthand for re-running the previous command entered, 
  substituting one string for another in the command. The default is ^
* The optional third character is the character which indicates that the remainder of the line is a comment when found as the first
  character of a word, normally #
The history comment character causes history substitution to be skipped for the remaining words on the line.
It does not necessarily cause the shell parser to treat the rest of the line as a comment.




    
HOME  
* The home directory of the current user;
* the default argument for the cd builtin command. 
* The value of this variable is also used when performing tilde expansion.

    
HOSTFILE
Contains the name of a file in the same format as /etc/hosts that should be read when the shell needs to complete a hostname. 
* The list of possible hostname completions may be changed while the shell is running; 
  the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, bash adds the contents of the new file to the existing list. 
* If HOSTFILE is set, but has no value, or does not name a readable file, bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to obtain 
  the list of possible hostname completions. 
* When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared.


IFS
The Internal Field Separator that is used for word splitting after expansion and to split lines 
into words with the read builtin command. The default value is `<space><tab><newline>'.


IGNOREEOF
Controls the action of an interactive shell on receipt of an EOF character as the sole input. 
* If set, the value is the number of consecutive EOF characters which must be 
  typed as the first characters on an input line before bash exits. 
* If the variable exists but does not have a numeric value, or has no value, the default value is 10. 
* If it does not exist, EOF signifies the end of input to the shell.


INPUTRC
The filename for the readline startup file, overriding the default of ~/.inputrc.




LANG  
Used to determine the locale category for any category not 
specifically selected with a variable starting with LC_*

LC_ALL 
This variable overrides the value of LANG and any 
other LC_* variable specifying a locale category.

LC_COLLATE
sorting rules - determines the collation order used when sorting the results of 
pathname expansion, and determines the behavior of range expressions, equivalence 
classes, and collating sequences within pathname expansion and pattern matching.

LC_CTYPE
character types and encoding - determines the interpretation of characters 
and the behavior of character classes within pathname expansion and pattern matching.

LC_MESSAGES
natural language messages - determines the locale used to 
translate double-quoted strings preceded by a $ (e.g. echo $"message")

LANGUAGE  
override for LC_MESSAGES, used by GNU gettext only

LC_NUMERIC
determines the locale category used for number formatting.

LC_MONETARY
money amount formatting

LC_TIME
date and time display


* Each of the LC_* and LANG variables can contain a locale name of the following form:
     			language[_territory[.codeset]][@modifier]
  language is an ISO 639 language code (lower case), 
  territory is an ISO 3166 country code (upper case), 
  codeset denotes a character set, and 
  modifier stands for other particular attributes (for example indicating a particular language dialect, or a nonstandard orthography).
	e.g.   LANG=en_US.UTF-8

* LANGUAGE can contain several locale names, separated by colons.



LINES 
Used by the select compound command to determine the column length for printing selection lists. 
Automatically set if the checkwinsize option is enabled or in an interactive shell upon receipt of a SIGWINCH.


MAIL
If this parameter is set to a file or directory name and the MAILPATH variable is not set, 
bash informs the user of the arrival of mail in the specified file or Maildir-format directory.


MAILCHECK
Specifies how often (in seconds) bash checks for mail. 
* The default is 60 seconds. 
* When it is time to check for mail, the shell does so before displaying the primary prompt. 
* If this variable is unset, or set to a value that is not a number greater than or equal to zero, the shell disables mail checking.


MAILPATH
A colon-separated list of filenames to be checked for mail. 
* The message to be printed when mail arrives in a particular file may be specified by separating 
  the filename from the message with a ?. 
* When used in the text of the message, $_ expands to the name of the current mailfile.
  Example:
  MAILPATH='/var/mail/bfox?"You have mail":~/shell-mail?"$_ has mail!"'
* Bash supplies a default value for this variable, but the location of the user mail 
  files that it uses is system dependent (e.g., /var/mail/$USER).


OPTERR
If set to the value 1, bash displays error messages generated by the getopts builtin command. 
OPTERR is initialized to 1 each time the shell is invoked or a shell script is executed.


PATH  
The search path for commands
* It is a colon-separated list of directories in which the shell looks for commands.
* A zero-length (null) directory name in the value of PATH indicates the current directory.
  A null directory name may appear as two adjacent colons, or as an initial or trailing colon.
* The default path is system-dependent, and is set by the administrator who installs bash. 
* A common value is /usr/local/bin:/usr/local/sbin:/usr/bin:/usr/sbin:/bin:/sbin


POSIXLY_CORRECT
If this variable is in the environment when bash starts, the shell enters posix mode before reading the startup files, as if the --posix invocation option had been supplied. If it is set while the shell is running, bash enables posix mode, as if the command set -o posix had been executed.


PROMPT_COMMAND
If set, the value is executed as a command prior to issuing each primary prompt.


PROMPT_DIRTRIM
If set to a number greater than zero, the value is used as the number of trailing directory components to 
retain when expanding the \w and \W prompt string escapes. Characters removed are replaced with an ellipsis.


PS1  
The value of this parameter is expanded and used as the primary prompt string. 
The default value is \s-\v\$

PS2  
The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and used as the secondary prompt string. The default is >

PS3  
The value of this parameter is used as the prompt for the select command.

PS4
The value of this parameter is expanded as with PS1 and the value is printed before each command bash displays during an execution trace. The
first character of PS4 is replicated multiple times, as necessary, to indicate multiple levels of indirection. The default is +

SHELL
The full pathname to the shell is kept in this environment variable. 
If it is not set when the shell starts, bash assigns to it the full pathname of the current user's login shell.


TIMEFORMAT
The value of this parameter is used as a format string specifying how the timing 
information for pipelines prefixed with the time reserved word should be displayed.
* The % character introduces an escape sequence that is expanded to a time value or other information. 
* The escape sequences and their meanings are as follows (the braces denote optional portions):
       %%    		A literal %
       %[p][l]R 		The elapsed time in seconds
       %[p][l]U 	The number of CPU seconds spent in user mode
       %[p][l]S 	The number of CPU seconds spent in system mode
       %P    		The CPU percentage, computed as (%U + %S) / %R

* The optional p is a digit specifying the precision, the number of fractional digits after a decimal point. 
  - A value of 0 causes no decimal point or fraction to be output
  - At most 3 places after the decimal point may be specified
  - values of p greater than 3 are changed to 3.
  - If p is not specified, the value 3 is used.

* The optional l specifies a longer format, including minutes, of the form MMmSS.FFs 
  The value of p determines whether or not the fraction is included.

* If this variable is not set, bash acts as if it had the value $'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'
* If the value is null, no timing information is displayed
* A trailing newline is added when the format string is displayed


TIMEFORMAT=$'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsys\t%3lS'
time somescript.sh
real    0m5.966s
user    0m1.620s
sys     0m4.100s

TIMEFORMAT=$'\nreal\t%3lR\nuser\t%3lU\nsyst\t%3lS\nCPU%%\t%P'
time somescript.sh
real    0m2.628s
user    0m0.706s
sys     0m1.740s
CPU     93.07


TMOUT 
If set to a value greater than zero, TMOUT is treated as the default timeout for the read builtin. The select command terminates if input does
not arrive after TMOUT seconds when input is coming from a terminal. In an interactive shell, the value is interpreted as the number of seconds
to wait for a line of input after issuing the primary prompt. Bash terminates after waiting for that number of seconds if a complete line of
input does not arrive.


TMPDIR 
If set, bash uses its value as the name of a directory in which bash creates temporary files for the shell's use.



auto_resume
This variable controls how the shell interacts with the user and job control. If this variable is set, single word simple commands without redi‐
rections are treated as candidates for resumption of an existing stopped job. There is no ambiguity allowed; if there is more than one job beginning with the string typed, the job most recently accessed is selected. The name of a stopped job, in this context, is the command line used to
start it. If set to the value exact, the string supplied must match the name of a stopped job exactly; if set to substring, the string supplied
needs to match a substring of the name of a stopped job. The substring value provides functionality analogous to the %? job identifier (see JOB
CONTROL below). If set to any other value, the supplied string must be a prefix of a stopped job's name; this provides functionality analogous to
the %string job identifier.

