d-specific system variables.  For
     example, start *note 'mysqld': mysqld. with the
     '--max-seeks-for-key=1000' option or use 'SET
     max_seeks_for_key=1000' to tell the optimizer to assume that no key
     scan causes more than 1,000 key seeks.  See *note
     server-system-variables::.


File: manual.info.tmp,  Node: table-definition-issues,  Next: known-issues,  Prev: optimizer-issues,  Up: problems

B.4.6 Table Definition-Related Issues
-------------------------------------

* Menu:

* alter-table-problems::         Problems with ALTER TABLE
* temporary-table-problems::     TEMPORARY Table Problems


File: manual.info.tmp,  Node: alter-table-problems,  Next: temporary-table-problems,  Prev: table-definition-issues,  Up: table-definition-issues

B.4.6.1 Problems with ALTER TABLE
.................................

If you get a duplicate-key error when using *note 'ALTER TABLE':
alter-table. to change the character set or collation of a character
column, the cause is either that the new column collation maps two keys
to the same value or that the table is corrupted.  In the latter case,
you should run *note 'REPAIR TABLE': repair-table. on the table.  *note
'REPAIR TABLE': repair-table. works for 'MyISAM', 'ARCHIVE', and 'CSV'
tables.

If *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. dies with the following error, the
problem may be that MySQL crashed during an earlier *note 'ALTER TABLE':
alter-table. operation and there is an old table named 'A-XXX' or
'B-XXX' lying around:

     Error on rename of './database/name.frm'
     to './database/B-XXX.frm' (Errcode: 17)

In this case, go to the MySQL data directory and delete all files that
have names starting with 'A-' or 'B-'.  (You may want to move them
elsewhere instead of deleting them.)

*note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. works in the following way:

   * Create a new table named 'A-XXX' with the requested structural
     changes.

   * Copy all rows from the original table to 'A-XXX'.

   * Rename the original table to 'B-XXX'.

   * Rename 'A-XXX' to your original table name.

   * Delete 'B-XXX'.

If something goes wrong with the renaming operation, MySQL tries to undo
the changes.  If something goes seriously wrong (although this shouldn't
happen), MySQL may leave the old table as 'B-XXX'.  A simple rename of
the table files at the system level should get your data back.

If you use *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. on a transactional table or
if you are using Windows, *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. unlocks the
table if you had done a *note 'LOCK TABLE': lock-tables. on it.  This is
done because 'InnoDB' and these operating systems cannot drop a table
that is in use.


File: manual.info.tmp,  Node: temporary-table-problems,  Prev: alter-table-problems,  Up: table-definition-issues

B.4.6.2 TEMPORARY Table Problems
................................

Temporary tables created with *note 'CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE':
create-table. have the following limitations:

   * 'TEMPORARY' tables are supported only by the 'InnoDB', 'MEMORY',
     'MyISAM', and 'MERGE' storage engines.

   * Temporary tables are not supported for NDB Cluster.

   * The *note 'SHOW TABLES': show-tables. statement does not list
     'TEMPORARY' tables.

   * To rename 'TEMPORARY' tables, 'RENAME TABLE' does not work.  Use
     *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. instead:

          ALTER TABLE old_name RENAME new_name;

   * You cannot refer to a 'TEMPORARY' table more than once in the same
     query.  For example, the following does not work:

          SELECT * FROM temp_table JOIN temp_table AS t2;

     The statement produces this error:

          ERROR 1137: Can't reopen table: 'temp_table'

   * The 'Can't reopen table' error also occurs if you refer to a
     temporary table multiple times in a stored function under different
     aliases, even if the references occur in different statements
     within the function.

   * If a 'TEMPORARY' is created with the same name as an existing
     non-'TEMPORARY' table, the non-'TEMPORARY' table is hidden until
     the 'TEMPORARY' table is dropped, even if the tables use different
     storage engines.

   * There are known issues in using temporary tables with replication.
     See *note replication-features-temptables::, for more information.


File: manual.info.tmp,  Node: known-issues,  Prev: table-definition-issues,  Up: problems

B.4.7 Known Issues in MySQL
---------------------------

This section lists known issues in recent versions of MySQL.

For information about platform-specific issues, see the installation and
porting instructions in *note general-installation-issues::, and *note
porting::.

The following problems are known:

   * Subquery optimization for 'IN' is not as effective as for '='.

   * Even if you use 'lower_case_table_names=2' (which enables MySQL to
     remember the case used for databases and table names), MySQL does
     not remember the case used for database names for the function
     'DATABASE()' or within the various logs (on case-insensitive
     systems).

   * Dropping a 'FOREIGN KEY' constraint does not work in replication
     because the constraint may have another name on the slave.

   * *note 'REPLACE': replace. (and *note 'LOAD DATA': load-data. with
     the *note 'REPLACE': replace. option) does not trigger 'ON DELETE
     CASCADE'.

   * 'DISTINCT' with 'ORDER BY' does not work inside 'GROUP_CONCAT()' if
     you do not use all and only those columns that are in the
     'DISTINCT' list.

   * When inserting a big integer value (between 2^63 and 2^64âˆ’1) into
     a decimal or string column, it is inserted as a negative value
     because the number is evaluated in signed integer context.

   * *note 'ANALYZE TABLE': analyze-table, *note 'OPTIMIZE TABLE':
     optimize-table, and *note 'REPAIR TABLE': repair-table. may cause
     problems on tables for which you are using *note 'INSERT DELAYED':
     insert-delayed.

   * With statement-based binary logging, the master writes the executed
     queries to the binary log.  This is a very fast, compact, and
     efficient logging method that works perfectly in most cases.
     However, it is possible for the data on the master and slave to
     become different if a query is designed in such a way that the data
     modification is nondeterministic (generally not a recommended
     practice, even outside of replication).

     For example:

        * *note 'CREATE TABLE ... SELECT': create-table-select. or *note
          'INSERT ... SELECT': insert-select. statements that insert
          zero or 'NULL' values into an 'AUTO_INCREMENT' column.

        * *note 'DELETE': delete. if you are deleting rows from a table
          that has foreign keys with 'ON DELETE CASCADE' properties.

        * *note 'REPLACE ... SELECT': replace, 'INSERT IGNORE ...
          SELECT' if you have duplicate key values in the inserted data.

     *If and only if the preceding queries have no 'ORDER BY' clause
     guaranteeing a deterministic order*.

     For example, for *note 'INSERT ... SELECT': insert-select. with no
     'ORDER BY', the *note 'SELECT': select. may return rows in a
     different order (which results in a row having different ranks,
     hence getting a different number in the 'AUTO_INCREMENT' column),
     depending on the choices made by the optimizers on the master and
     slave.

     A query is optimized differently on the master and slave only if:

        * The table is stored using a different storage engine on the
          master than on the slave.  (It is possible to use different
          storage engines on the master and slave.  For example, you can
          use 'InnoDB' on the master, but 'MyISAM' on the slave if the
          slave has less available disk space.)

        * MySQL buffer sizes ('key_buffer_size', and so on) are
          different on the master and slave.

        * The master and slave run different MySQL versions, and the
          optimizer code differs between these versions.

     This problem may also affect database restoration using
     'mysqlbinlog|mysql'.

     The easiest way to avoid this problem is to add an 'ORDER BY'
     clause to the aforementioned nondeterministic queries to ensure
     that the rows are always stored or modified in the same order.
     Using row-based or mixed logging format also avoids the problem.

   * Log file names are based on the server host name if you do not
     specify a file name with the startup option.  To retain the same
     log file names if you change your host name to something else, you
     must explicitly use options such as '--log-bin=OLD_HOST_NAME-bin'.
     See *note server-options::.  Alternatively, rename the old files to
     reflect your host name change.  If these are binary logs, you must
     edit the binary log index file and fix the binary log file names
     there as well.  (The same is true for the relay logs on a slave
     server.)

   * *note 'mysqlbinlog': mysqlbinlog. does not delete temporary files
     left after a *note 'LOAD DATA': load-data. statement.  See *note
     mysqlbinlog::.

   * 'RENAME' does not work with 'TEMPORARY' tables or tables used in a
     'MERGE' table.

   * When using 'SET CHARACTER SET', you cannot use translated
     characters in database, table, and column names.

   * You cannot use '_' or '%' with 'ESCAPE' in 'LIKE ... ESCAPE'.

   * The server uses only the first 'max_sort_length' bytes when
     comparing data values.  This means that values cannot reliably be
     used in 'GROUP BY', 'ORDER BY', or 'DISTINCT' if they differ only
     after the first 'max_sort_length' bytes.  To work around this,
     increase the variable value.  The default value of
     'max_sort_length' is 1024 and can be changed at server startup time
     or at runtime.

   * Numeric calculations are done with *note 'BIGINT': integer-types.
     or *note 'DOUBLE': floating-point-types. (both are normally 64 bits
     long).  Which precision you get depends on the function.  The
     general rule is that bit functions are performed with *note
     'BIGINT': integer-types. precision, 'IF()' and 'ELT()' with *note
     'BIGINT': integer-types. or *note 'DOUBLE': floating-point-types.
     precision, and the rest with *note 'DOUBLE': floating-point-types.
     precision.  You should try to avoid using unsigned long long values
     if they resolve to be larger than 63 bits (9223372036854775807) for
     anything other than bit fields.

   * You can have up to 255 *note 'ENUM': enum. and *note 'SET': set.
     columns in one table.

   * In 'MIN()', 'MAX()', and other aggregate functions, MySQL currently
     compares *note 'ENUM': enum. and *note 'SET': set. columns by their
     string value rather than by the string's relative position in the
     set.

   * In an *note 'UPDATE': update. statement, columns are updated from
     left to right.  If you refer to an updated column, you get the
     updated value instead of the original value.  For example, the
     following statement increments 'KEY' by '2', *not* '1':

          mysql> UPDATE TBL_NAME SET KEY=KEY+1,KEY=KEY+1;

   * You can refer to multiple temporary tables in the same query, but
     you cannot refer to any given temporary table more than once.  For
     example, the following does not work:

          mysql> SELECT * FROM temp_table, temp_table AS t2;
          ERROR 1137: Can't reopen table: 'temp_table'

   * The optimizer may handle 'DISTINCT' differently when you are using
     'hidden' columns in a join than when you are not.  In a join,
     hidden columns are counted as part of the result (even if they are
     not shown), whereas in normal queries, hidden columns do not
     participate in the 'DISTINCT' comparison.

     An example of this is:

          SELECT DISTINCT mp3id FROM band_downloads
                 WHERE userid = 9 ORDER BY id DESC;

     and

          SELECT DISTINCT band_downloads.mp3id
                 FROM band_downloads,band_mp3
                 WHERE band_downloads.userid = 9
                 AND band_mp3.id = band_downloads.mp3id
                 ORDER BY band_downloads.id DESC;

     In the second case, you may get two identical rows in the result
     set (because the values in the hidden 'id' column may differ).

     Note that this happens only for queries that do not have the 'ORDER
     BY' columns in the result.

   * If you execute a 'PROCEDURE' on a query that returns an empty set,
     in some cases the 'PROCEDURE' does not transform the columns.

   * Creation of a table of type 'MERGE' does not check whether the
     underlying tables are compatible types.

   * If you use *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. to add a 'UNIQUE'
     index to a table used in a 'MERGE' table and then add a normal
     index on the 'MERGE' table, the key order is different for the
     tables if there was an old, non-'UNIQUE' key in the table.  This is
     because *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. puts 'UNIQUE' indexes
     before normal indexes to be able to detect duplicate keys as early
     as possible.


File: manual.info.tmp,  Node: indexes,  Next: glossary,  Prev: error-handling,  Up: Top

Appendix C Indexes
******************

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note my-init:: *note
mysql-thread-init::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
call:: *note information-functions:: *note insert:: *note
mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note mysql-num-rows::
*note mysql-stmt-affected-rows:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note
replace:: *note query-results::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-change-user::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note communication-errors:: *note
mysql-close:: *note mysql-commit:: *note mysql-connect:: *note
mysql-init:: *note mysql-rollback::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note my-init:: *note mysql-close::
*note mysql-connect:: *note mysql-options:: *note mysql-thread-init::
*note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-data-seek:: *note
mysql-row-seek:: *note mysql-use-result::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-debug::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-eof::

*note audit-log-file-formats:: *note c-api-functions:: *note
c-api-function-overview:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
mysql-client-find-plugin:: *note mysql-client-register-plugin:: *note
mysql-connect:: *note mysql-eof:: *note mysql-errno:: *note
mysql-fetch-row:: *note mysql-field-count:: *note mysql-load-plugin::
*note mysql-num-fields:: *note mysql-sqlstate:: *note mysql-stmt-close::
*note mysql-stmt-errno:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
mysql-use-result:: *note signal:: *note null-mysql-store-result:: *note
writing-audit-plugins::

*note c-api-functions:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
error-interfaces:: *note mysql-client-find-plugin:: *note
mysql-client-register-plugin:: *note mysql-connect:: *note mysql-eof::
*note mysql-error:: *note mysql-fetch-row:: *note mysql-load-plugin::
*note mysql-stmt-close:: *note mysql-stmt-error:: *note
mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note signal:: *note
null-mysql-store-result:: *note writing-audit-plugins::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note secure-client-programming:: *note
mysql-escape-string::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
mysql-fetch-field:: *note mysql-field-seek:: *note mysql-field-tell::
*note mysql-stmt-result-metadata::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-stmt-result-metadata::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-stmt-result-metadata::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-fetch-lengths:: *note
mysql-fetch-row::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
federated-description:: *note mysql-eof:: *note mysql-errno:: *note
mysql-fetch-lengths:: *note mysql-fetch-row:: *note mysql-row-tell::
*note mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note
query-results::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-field-count:: *note
mysql-num-fields:: *note mysql-query:: *note mysql-real-query:: *note
mysql-stmt-result-metadata:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
null-mysql-store-result::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
mysql-fetch-field:: *note mysql-field-tell:: *note
mysql-stmt-result-metadata::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-stmt-result-metadata::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
commands-out-of-sync:: *note mysql-free-result:: *note mysql-list-dbs::
*note mysql-list-fields:: *note mysql-list-processes:: *note
mysql-list-tables:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note
mysql-stmt-result-metadata:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
mysql-use-result::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note adding-collation-choosing-id::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-server-client-versions::
*note mysql-connect::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-server-client-versions::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-server-client-versions::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-server-client-versions::

*note c-api-encrypted-connections:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note mysql-get-ssl-cipher::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-hex-string::

*note alter-table:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note load-data:: *note mysql-info::
*note mysql-options:: *note constraint-primary-key:: *note update::
*note query-results::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note my-init:: *note mysql-close::
*note mysql-get-ssl-cipher:: *note mysql-init:: *note
mysql-library-init:: *note mysql-options:: *note mysql-real-connect::
*note mysql-ssl-set:: *note mysql-thread-init:: *note
c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
create-table:: *note getting-unique-id:: *note information-functions::
*note insert:: *note mysql-insert-id:: *note server-system-variables::
*note example-auto-increment:: *note query-results::

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
mysql-thread-id::

*note c-api-embedded-server-functions:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note libmysqld:: *note mysql-library-end:: *note mysql-library-init::
*note mysql-server-end:: *note mysql-server-init::

*note c-api-embedded-server-functions:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note libmysqld:: *note my-init:: *note mysql-init:: *note
mysql-library-init:: *note mysql-load-plugin:: *note mysql-server-init::
*note mysql-thread-init:: *note libmysqld-options:: *note
c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-free-result:: *note
mysql-list-dbs::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
mysql-list-fields::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-list-tables::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note client-plugin-descriptors:: *note
mysql-load-plugin-v::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
mysql-more-results:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note
mysql-stmt-next-result::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
call:: *note mysql-more-results:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-set-server-option:: *note
mysql-store-result::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-fetch-field-direct:: *note
mysql-fetch-row:: *note mysql-stmt-result-metadata::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-data-seek:: *note mysql-num-rows::
*note mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note
query-results::

*note user-names:: *note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note
c-api-plugin-functions:: *note c-api-encrypted-connections:: *note
c-api-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
client-plugin-descriptors:: *note cleartext-pluggable-authentication::
*note charset-connection:: *note connection-compression-control:: *note
gone-away:: *note mysql-options:: *note mysql-ping:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note
plugin-api-components:: *note load-data-local:: *note
multiple-server-clients:: *note writing-authentication-plugins-setup::

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
gone-away:: *note mysql-ping:: *note mysql-thread-id::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
call:: *note getting-unique-id:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note
mysql-create-db:: *note mysql-drop-db:: *note mysql-fetch-field:: *note
mysql-kill:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note mysql-query:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-real-query:: *note mysql-reload:: *note
mysql-set-local-infile-handler:: *note mysql-set-server-option:: *note
mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note
null-mysql-store-result:: *note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-encrypted-connections:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note call:: *note functions:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note insert:: *note
mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-change-user:: *note mysql-connect::
*note mysql-init:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note mysql-options:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-set-server-option:: *note
mysql-sqlstate:: *note mysql-ssl-set:: *note sql-prepared-statements::
*note server-system-variables:: *note stored-routines-syntax:: *note
unix-signal-response:: *note multiple-server-clients::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note secure-client-programming:: *note
mysql-escape-string:: *note mysql-real-escape-string:: *note
mysql-set-character-set:: *note populating-spatial-columns:: *note
string-literals::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
call:: *note federated-description:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note
mysql-next-result:: *note mysql-query:: *note mysql-real-connect:: *note
mysql-real-query:: *note mysql-set-server-option:: *note
mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-row-seek:: *note
mysql-row-tell:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-row-seek:: *note
mysql-row-tell:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-select-db::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-server-end:: *note
mysql-server-init::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note my-init:: *note
mysql-server-init:: *note mysql-thread-init::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-get-character-set-info::
*note mysql-real-escape-string::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-set-local-infile-default::
*note mysql-set-local-infile-handler::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
mysql-set-server-option::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note mysql-shutdown:: *note
privileges-provided::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
mysql-errno:: *note mysql-sqlstate:: *note mysql-stmt-close:: *note
mysql-stmt-sqlstate:: *note signal::

*note c-api-encrypted-connections:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-ssl-set::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-affected-rows:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note
mysql-stmt-next-result:: *note mysql-stmt-num-rows::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-type-conversions:: *note mysql-stmt-execute::
*note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note mysql-stmt-store-result:: *note
cursor-restrictions::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-date-handling:: *note mysql-stmt-bind-param::
*note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note mysql-stmt-prepare:: *note
mysql-stmt-send-long-data::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-date-handling:: *note mysql-stmt-bind-result::
*note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch-column:: *note
mysql-stmt-next-result:: *note mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note mysql-stmt-close::
*note mysql-stmt-errno:: *note mysql-stmt-error:: *note
mysql-stmt-init:: *note mysql-stmt-sqlstate::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-data-seek:: *note mysql-stmt-row-seek:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
error-interfaces:: *note mysql-stmt-close:: *note mysql-stmt-errno::
*note mysql-stmt-fetch::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
error-interfaces:: *note mysql-stmt-close:: *note mysql-stmt-error::
*note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note mysql-stmt-prepare::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-date-handling:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-type-conversions:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note mysql-stmt-affected-rows:: *note
mysql-stmt-attr-set:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note
mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note mysql-stmt-next-result:: *note
mysql-stmt-send-long-data:: *note mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-type-conversions:: *note
client-error-reference:: *note mysql-stmt-bind-result:: *note
mysql-stmt-execute:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note
mysql-stmt-result-metadata:: *note mysql-stmt-row-tell:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
client-error-reference:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-field-count::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-attr-set:: *note mysql-stmt-free-result:: *note
mysql-stmt-next-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-functions:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statements:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note
mysql-stmt-prepare::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview::

*note c-api-prepared-call-statements:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note call:: *note
mysql-stmt-next-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-data-seek:: *note mysql-stmt-num-rows::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-execute::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview::

*note statement-repreparation:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-date-handling:: *note query-cache-operation::
*note mysql-stmt-bind-param:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note
mysql-stmt-field-count:: *note mysql-stmt-prepare:: *note
mysql-stmt-reset:: *note mysql-stmt-result-metadata:: *note
sql-prepared-statements::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-attr-set:: *note mysql-stmt-send-long-data::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-type-conversions:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch::
*note mysql-stmt-result-metadata:: *note mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-row-seek:: *note mysql-stmt-row-tell:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
mysql-stmt-row-seek:: *note mysql-stmt-row-tell:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
client-error-reference:: *note mysql-stmt-reset:: *note
mysql-stmt-send-long-data:: *note server-system-variables::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
error-interfaces:: *note mysql-stmt-close:: *note mysql-stmt-sqlstate::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note mysql-stmt-attr-set::
*note mysql-stmt-data-seek:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note
mysql-stmt-num-rows:: *note mysql-stmt-row-seek:: *note
mysql-stmt-row-tell:: *note mysql-stmt-store-result::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
commands-out-of-sync:: *note federated-description:: *note mysql:: *note
mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-data-seek:: *note mysql-eof:: *note
mysql-fetch-field:: *note mysql-fetch-row:: *note mysql-field-count::
*note mysql-free-result:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note
mysql-num-fields:: *note mysql-num-rows:: *note mysql-row-seek:: *note
mysql-row-tell:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note
mysql-stmt-result-metadata:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
mysql-use-result:: *note query-results:: *note null-mysql-store-result::
*note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note libmysqld:: *note
mysql-thread-end:: *note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
mysql-ping:: *note mysql-thread-id::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note libmysqld:: *note my-init:: *note
mysql-thread-end:: *note mysql-thread-init:: *note
c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-function-overview::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
commands-out-of-sync:: *note mysql:: *note mysql-data-seek:: *note
mysql-eof:: *note mysql-fetch-row:: *note mysql-free-result:: *note
mysql-next-result:: *note mysql-num-fields:: *note mysql-num-rows::
*note mysql-row-seek:: *note mysql-row-tell:: *note mysql-stmt-execute::
*note mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note
out-of-memory:: *note query-results:: *note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
mysql-next-result:: *note show-warnings::

A | B | C | D | E | G | H | I | K | L | M | N | O | P | R | S | T | U |
V | W | Y | Z

[index top]

*note delete::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note binary-installation::

*note using-stack-trace::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note binary-installation::

*note mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues::

*note ha-memcached-install:: *note linux-installation-native:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached::

[index top]

*note password-security-user:: *note osx-installation-notes:: *note
invoking-programs:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
setting-environment-variables:: *note manual-conventions::

*note contributors:: *note compilation-problems:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites::

[index top]

*note using-stack-trace::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note resetting-permissions-windows::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
linux-installation-native:: *note mysql-server::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note c-api-building-clients::

*note adding-character-set:: *note adding-udf:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
cannot-initialize-character-set:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series::
*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-source:: *note
compiling-plugin-libraries:: *note charset-applications:: *note
source-ssl-library-configuration:: *note compilation-problems:: *note
environment-variables:: *note problems-with-mysql-sock:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note source-installation:: *note
installing-development-tree:: *note installing-source-distribution::
*note mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note
plugin-services:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysqlaccess:: *note performance-schema-build-configuration:: *note
multiple-unix-servers:: *note load-data-local:: *note charset-server::
*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note
blackhole-storage-engine:: *note example-storage-engine:: *note
federated-storage-engine:: *note features:: *note dba-dtrace-server::
*note option-files:: *note mysql-nutshell:: *note
mysql-cluster-what-is-new:: *note crashing::

*note adding-udf:: *note installing-source-distribution::

*note resetting-permissions-windows::

*note invoking-programs:: *note manual-conventions::

*note invoking-programs:: *note manual-conventions::

*note comp-err:: *note programs-overview::

*note bug-reports:: *note ha-memcached-install:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note manual-conventions:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-php:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-howto-rawdata::

*note solaris-installation:: *note server-options::

*note replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note backup-types:: *note
replication-howto-rawdata:: *note replication-howto-additionalslaves::

*note mysql-benchmarks::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note check-table:: *note
myisam-start:: *note log-file-maintenance:: *note
myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note batch-mode::

*note invoking-programs:: *note setting-environment-variables:: *note
manual-conventions::

[index top]

*note mysqld-safe::

*note what-is-crashing::

*note osx-installation-notes::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started:: *note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started::

*note replication-howto-rawdata::

[index top]

*note ha-memcached-install:: *note linux-installation-native::

[index top]

*note adding-udf:: *note c-api-building-clients:: *note
libmysqld-compiling:: *note perl-support-problems:: *note
tools-used-to-create-mysql:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note compiling-for-debugging:: *note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note
tools-used-to-create-mysql:: *note crashing::

*note installing-development-tree::

*note installing-development-tree::

*note installing-development-tree::

*note freebsd-installation:: *note installing-source-distribution::
*note source-installation-prerequisites::

*note checking-gpg-signature::

*note binary-installation:: *note source-installation-prerequisites::

*note ipv6-brokers::

*note checking-gpg-signature::

*note mysqldumpslow:: *note pattern-matching::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
linux-installation-rpm:: *note solaris-installation:: *note
binary-installation::

*note solaris-installation:: *note binary-installation:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites::

*note binary-installation:: *note installing-source-distribution::

*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note bug-reports:: *note
osx-installation::

[index top]

*note mysql-server-side-help::

*note can-not-connect-to-server::

[index top]

*note compiler-characteristics:: *note porting::

*note ipv6-system-support::

*note check-table:: *note innochecksum:: *note glossary:: *note
programs-overview::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-ruby::

*note mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues::

[index top]

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note xa-restrictions:: *note
unix-signal-response::

*note invoking-programs:: *note setting-environment-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition::

[index top]

*note adding-udf::

*note c-api-building-clients::

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities::

*note binary-installation:: *note symbolic-links-to-tables::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note temporary-files::

[index top]

*note source-installation-prerequisites::

*note compiling-plugin-libraries:: *note compilation-problems:: *note
ha-memcached-install:: *note freebsd-installation:: *note
installing-source-distribution:: *note perl-support-problems:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
compiling-plugin-libraries:: *note ha-memcached-install:: *note
source-configuration-options::

*note installing-source-distribution:: *note
source-configuration-options::

*note installing-development-tree:: *note perl-installation:: *note
mysql-test-suite::

*note compilation-problems::

*note verifying-md5-checksum::

*note verifying-md5-checksum::

*note verifying-md5-checksum::

*note ha-memcached-using-hashtypes:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-python::

*note ha-memcached-operations:: *note ha-memcached-using-expiry:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces:: *note ha-memcached-stats:: *note
ha-memcached-install:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-set:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note ha-memcached-using-deployment::
*note ha-memcached-stats-detail:: *note ha-memcached-faq:: *note
ha-memcached-stats-general:: *note ha-memcached-using-hashtypes:: *note
ha-memcached-stats-items:: *note ha-memcached-using-logs:: *note
ha-memcached-stats-sizes:: *note ha-memcached-stats-slabs:: *note
ha-memcached-using-threads:: *note ha-memcached-using-memory:: *note
glossary:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-basics:: *note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached::
*note ha-memcached-using:: *note ha-memcached-using-dtrace:: *note
ha-memcached-mysql-frontend:: *note ha-memcached-stats-memcached-tool::
*note ha-memcached-interfaces-java:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-perl:: *note ha-memcached-interfaces-php:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-python:: *note ha-memcached-interfaces-ruby::
*note ha-memcached:: *note ha-memcached-using-namespaces:: *note
ha-memcached-interfaces-protocol:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note ha-memcached-install::

*note ha-memcached-stats:: *note ha-memcached-stats-memcached-tool::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached-utilities::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-installation::

*note create-database::

*note windows-symbolic-links::

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note windows-installer-msi-quiet::

*note msql2mysql:: *note programs-overview:: *note replace-utility::

*note error-log-rotation:: *note log-file-maintenance:: *note
query-log::

*note my-print-defaults:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note programs-overview::
*note programs-development::

*note fulltext-search:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note programs-overview::

*note analyze-table:: *note optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note
check-table:: *note mysql-install-wizard-install-type:: *note
compressed-format:: *note corrupted-myisam-tables:: *note
backup-methods:: *note debugging-server:: *note delete:: *note
dynamic-format:: *note explain-output:: *note external-locking:: *note
fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note myisam-check:: *note myisam-repair:: *note
bug-reports:: *note index-statistics:: *note table-size-limit:: *note
load-index:: *note partitioning-maintenance:: *note
reproducible-test-case:: *note myisam-start:: *note
myisam-table-maintenance:: *note myisam-optimization:: *note
myisam-table-formats:: *note myisamchk-check-options:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamchk-memory:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisamchk:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note myisamchk-table-info:: *note
optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note repair-table-optimization:: *note
myisamchk-other-options:: *note programs-overview:: *note
myisam-table-close:: *note repair-table:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note show-index:: *note
show-table-status:: *note static-format:: *note system-optimization::
*note statistics-table:: *note tables-table:: *note features:: *note
myisam-storage-engine:: *note myisam-crash-recovery:: *note
using-log-files:: *note symbolic-links-to-tables:: *note crashing::

*note myisam-repair::

*note myisam-check::

*note myisamlog:: *note programs-overview::

*note optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note compressed-format::
*note create-table:: *note external-locking:: *note table-size-limit::
*note merge-table-advantages:: *note myisam-table-formats:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
myisamchk-table-info:: *note data-size:: *note programs-overview:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note silent-column-changes:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note myisam-storage-engine::

*note ansi-diff-comments:: *note creating-accounts:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-remarks:: *note
alter-table-partition-operations:: *note backup-types:: *note
docker-mysql-getting-started:: *note begin-end:: *note
c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note mysql-install-wizard-changes:: *note
mysql-install-wizard-install-type:: *note client-error-reference:: *note
cleartext-pluggable-authentication:: *note option-file-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note comments:: *note
mysql-cluster-configuration:: *note charset-applications:: *note
using-encrypted-connections:: *note innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note
connecting-disconnecting:: *note connecting:: *note
ipv6-remote-connections:: *note ipv6-local-connections:: *note
charset-connection:: *note contributors:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note copying-databases:: *note
create-procedure:: *note creating-database:: *note
mysql-installation-windows-path:: *note debugging-client:: *note
mysql-cluster-api-definition:: *note stored-programs-defining:: *note
mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note downgrade-troubleshooting::
*note downgrading:: *note innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note
password-security-user:: *note entering-queries:: *note
environment-variables:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
error-message-components:: *note events-configuration:: *note
backup-strategy-example:: *note c-api-example-programs:: *note
examples:: *note mysql-batch-commands:: *note functions:: *note
osx-installation-notes:: *note grant:: *note help:: *note
what-is-crashing:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note bug-reports::
*note changing-mysql-user:: *note ignoring-user:: *note
information-functions:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note innodb-recovery::
*note binary-installation:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm::
*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note invoking-programs::
*note mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
limit-optimization:: *note load-data:: *note load-xml:: *note
mysqldump-copying-database:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
mysql-cluster-management:: *note select-benchmarking:: *note
docker-mysql-more-topics:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note mysql-commands:: *note
mysql-logging:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-server-side-help:: *note mysql-tips:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster::
*note glossary:: *note mysql-installer-setup:: *note mysql-cluster::
*note time-zone-support:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note mysql::
*note mysql-server:: *note mysql-errno:: *note mysql-sqlstate:: *note
mysql-tzinfo-to-sql:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics::
*note mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-example-data:: *note mysql-cluster-replication::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all:: *note
option-defaults-equals:: *note out-of-memory:: *note programs-overview::
*note packet-too-large:: *note pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note
password-hashing:: *note pluggable-authentication:: *note
point-in-time-recovery:: *note sql-prepared-statements:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note option-modifiers:: *note
partitioning-columns-range:: *note rebuilding-tables:: *note
reloading-delimited-text-dumps:: *note reloading-sql-format-dumps::
*note resetting-permissions-generic:: *note ndb-restore-to-more-nodes::
*note revoke:: *note default-privileges:: *note load-data-local:: *note
server-error-reference:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
server-side-help-support:: *note show-slave-status:: *note
show-warnings:: *note signal:: *note socket-pluggable-authentication::
*note program-options:: *note windows-start-service:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-starting:: *note
mysql-config-wizard-starting:: *note starting-server:: *note
string-literals:: *note testing-server:: *note blob:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-transporters:: *note trigger-syntax:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting-datadict:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
tutorial:: *note manual-conventions:: *note unix-signal-response:: *note
upgrading:: *note recovery-from-backups:: *note batch-mode:: *note
using-mysqldump:: *note option-files:: *note command-line-options::
*note program-variables:: *note using-log-files:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-symlinks:: *note mysql-nutshell:: *note
windows-postinstallation:: *note xml-functions::

*note compiling-for-debugging::

*note freebsd-installation::

*note mysql-test-suite::

*note mysql-test-suite::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary::

*note linux-installation:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note mysql-server:: *note mysqldumpslow::
*note programs-overview:: *note server-options:: *note automatic-start::
*note timezone-problems::

*note mysql-server::

*note c-api-building-clients:: *note libmysqld-compiling:: *note
compilation-problems:: *note c-api-implementations:: *note
mysql-config:: *note programs-overview:: *note plugin-api-components::

*note option-files::

*note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note programs-overview::

*note reproducible-test-case:: *note mysql-find-rows:: *note
programs-overview::

*note mysql-fix-extensions:: *note programs-overview::

*note data-directory-initialization:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-install-db:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note programs-overview:: *note
mysql-install-db-problems:: *note server-options::

*note mysql-plugin:: *note programs-overview::

*note linux-installation-native:: *note solaris-installation-pkg:: *note
mysql-secure-installation:: *note programs-overview:: *note
default-privileges::

*note contributors:: *note mysql-setpermission:: *note
programs-overview:: *note starting-server::

*note mysql-setpermission::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note time-zone-support:: *note mysql-tzinfo-to-sql:: *note
programs-overview::

*note creating-accounts:: *note alter-database:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note downgrading-to-previous-series::
*note downgrade-binary-package:: *note grant-tables:: *note
ignoring-user:: *note data-directory-initialization:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note programs-overview:: *note password-hashing:: *note
rebuilding-tables:: *note server-options:: *note
server-error-reference:: *note upgrade-binary-package:: *note
windows-upgrading::

*note mysql-waitpid:: *note programs-overview::

*note mysql-waitpid::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note mysql-zap:: *note
programs-overview::

*note contributors:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note programs-overview:: *note
starting-server:: *note problems-connecting::

*note assigning-passwords:: *note
replication-solutions-backups-mysqldump:: *note
can-not-connect-to-server:: *note cleartext-pluggable-authentication::
*note server-configuration:: *note connecting:: *note
charset-connection:: *note contributors:: *note create-database:: *note
mysql-installation-windows-path:: *note debugging-server:: *note
drop-database:: *note c-api-example-programs:: *note flush:: *note
osx-installation-notes:: *note what-is-crashing:: *note myisam-repair::
*note bug-reports:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note mysql-installer-setup:: *note
server-logs:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note
programs-overview:: *note pluggable-authentication:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note multiple-unix-servers:: *note
default-privileges:: *note windows-start-service:: *note
windows-start-command-line:: *note testing-server:: *note features::
*note server-shutdown:: *note windows-upgrading:: *note option-files::
*note command-line-options:: *note crashing::

*note debugging-server:: *note events-status-info:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided::

*note insert-delayed:: *note show-status::

*note host-cache:: *note blocked-host:: *note server-system-variables::
*note problems-connecting::

*note backup-strategy-summary:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series::
*note error-log-rotation:: *note backup-policy:: *note
log-file-maintenance:: *note binary-log:: *note slave-logs-relaylog::

*note copying-databases:: *note grant-tables:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
server-options:: *note problems-connecting:: *note privilege-changes::

*note optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note external-locking::
*note table-cache:: *note memory-use:: *note myisampack:: *note
myisam-crash-recovery::

*note creating-accounts::

*note full-disk:: *note kill:: *note locking-functions:: *note
gone-away:: *note privileges-provided::

*note mysqladmin:: *note problems-connecting::

*note creating-accounts:: *note thread-information:: *note kill:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note mysql-threads:: *note
mysql-list-processes:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
show-processlist::

*note debugging-server::

*note creating-accounts:: *note table-cache:: *note
log-file-maintenance::

*note creating-accounts:: *note grant-tables:: *note bug-reports:: *note
mysqlaccess:: *note server-options:: *note user-resources:: *note
privilege-changes::

*note bug-reports::

*note request-access:: *note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example::
*note making-trace-files:: *note grant:: *note myisam-repair:: *note
changing-mysql-user:: *note osx-installation-pkg:: *note
reproducible-test-case:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-server::
*note mysqladmin:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-temptables:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart:: *note windows-start-service::
*note server-shutdown:: *note crashing::

*note table-cache:: *note mysql-stat:: *note mysqladmin::

*note gone-away:: *note show-variables::

*note bug-reports::

*note compiling-for-debugging::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note bug-reports:: *note gone-away::
*note testing-server:: *note crashing::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note backup-types:: *note replication-howto-rawdata:: *note
innodb-backup:: *note glossary:: *note mysqldump::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note binlog:: *note
dba-dtrace-ref-command:: *note replication-bugs:: *note
innodb-recovery:: *note known-issues:: *note miscellaneous-functions::
*note glossary:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysqlbinlog-hexdump:: *note mysqlbinlog-row-events:: *note mysqlbinlog::
*note programs-overview:: *note point-in-time-recovery:: *note
point-in-time-recovery-positions:: *note point-in-time-recovery-times::
*note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr:: *note
replication-features-load-data:: *note replication-features-variables::
*note set-variable:: *note show-binlog-events:: *note
show-relaylog-events:: *note start-slave:: *note binary-log:: *note
query-log:: *note slave-logs-relaylog:: *note replication-rbr-usage::
*note recovery-from-backups:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note reproducible-test-case::

*note known-issues::

*note mysqlbug::

*note alter-database:: *note cleartext-pluggable-authentication:: *note
charset-connection:: *note partitioning-maintenance:: *note
identifier-mapping:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisam-table-maintenance:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlcheck::
*note programs-overview:: *note rebuilding-tables:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
features:: *note myisam-storage-engine::

*note adding-udf:: *note adding-functions:: *note table-scan-avoidance::
*note docker-mysql-getting-started:: *note
replication-options-binary-log:: *note binary-log-formats:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note can-not-connect-to-server::
*note cannot-create:: *note cannot-initialize-character-set:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note old-client:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note comments:: *note
communication-errors:: *note comp-err:: *note compiling-for-debugging::
*note mysql-cluster-configuration:: *note
source-ssl-library-configuration:: *note server-configuration:: *note
corrupted-myisam-tables:: *note create-function-udf:: *note
create-table:: *note making-trace-files:: *note innodb-deadlocks:: *note
debugging-server:: *note porting:: *note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-api-definition::
*note innodb-doublewrite-buffer:: *note innodb-file-format-enabling::
*note innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note environment-variables:: *note
error-log-rotation:: *note error-log-unix:: *note error-log-windows::
*note error-log-syslog:: *note external-locking:: *note
not-enough-file-handles:: *note innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces::
*note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-general:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
ha-zfs-mysql-recovery:: *note blocked-host:: *note client-connections::
*note memory-use:: *note what-is-crashing:: *note myisam-repair:: *note
bug-reports:: *note changing-mysql-user:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note ignoring-user:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-failover:: *note information-functions:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-configuration:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-first-start:: *note innodb-backup:: *note
innodb-disk-io:: *note innodb-recovery:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note
insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note linux-installation-rpm::
*note osx-installation-pkg:: *note solaris-installation:: *note
binary-installation:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note kill:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note load-data:: *note
reproducible-test-case:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
mysql-cluster-management:: *note miscellaneous-functions:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note myisam-start:: *note myisamchk-check-options::
*note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamchk:: *note myisampack::
*note faqs-general:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note faqs-sql-modes:: *note
mysql-tips:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note glossary:: *note
windows-installation-layout:: *note mysql-cluster:: *note
server-administration:: *note gone-away:: *note server-logs:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note time-zone-support:: *note
mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note mysql-cluster-compared:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note compatibility:: *note
mysql-threads:: *note mysql-server:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note
mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld:: *note mysqld-multi::
*note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-example:: *note mysql-cluster-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-installation:: *note mysql-cluster-option-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-nodes-groups:: *note mysql-cluster-overview:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs:: *note mysql-cluster-replication:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-system-variables::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo::
*note optimize-table:: *note optimizer-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note libmysqld-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-added-deprecated-removed:: *note programs-overview:: *note
mysql-cluster-configuration-overview:: *note packet-too-large:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note myisam-table-close:: *note
mysql-install-db-problems:: *note file-permissions:: *note
option-modifiers:: *note query-cache-configuration:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-starting:: *note innodb-redo-log:: *note
repair-table:: *note replication-options-reference:: *note
replication-options:: *note replication-options-master:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note reset-slave:: *note
resetting-permissions-unix:: *note resetting-permissions-windows:: *note
resolve-stack-dump:: *note nontransactional-tables:: *note
multiple-servers:: *note load-data-local:: *note security-options::
*note select-into:: *note windows-select-server:: *note
programs-server:: *note charset-server:: *note server-options:: *note
log-file-maintenance:: *note plugin-status-system-variables:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
error-message-language:: *note myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note
show-engine:: *note program-options:: *note automatic-start:: *note
multiple-windows-services:: *note
multiple-windows-command-line-servers:: *note windows-start-service::
*note windows-start-command-line:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-starting:: *note supporters:: *note
replication-solutions-switch:: *note table-locking:: *note
table-corruption:: *note windows-testing:: *note testing-server:: *note
binary-log:: *note blackhole-storage-engine:: *note dbug-package:: *note
ddl-log:: *note error-log:: *note query-log:: *note
myisam-storage-engine:: *note query-cache:: *note mysqld-server:: *note
mysql-test-suite:: *note slow-query-log:: *note timezone-problems::
*note too-many-connections:: *note dba-dtrace-server:: *note
windows-troubleshooting:: *note error-creating-innodb:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note starting-server-troubleshooting:: *note
manual-conventions:: *note unix-signal-response:: *note
upgrade-troubleshooting:: *note windows-upgrading:: *note
using-stack-trace:: *note myisam-crash-recovery:: *note option-files::
*note using-log-files:: *note windows-symbolic-links:: *note
symbolic-links-to-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-two-channels:: *note making-windows-dumps::
*note mysql-nutshell:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new:: *note
crashing:: *note privilege-changes:: *note temporary-files:: *note
which-version:: *note writing-plugins::

*note making-trace-files::

*note making-trace-files:: *note binary-installation:: *note mysqld::
*note mysqld-safe:: *note windows-select-server::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service::

*note mysqld-multi:: *note programs-overview:: *note
multiple-unix-servers:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
compiling-for-debugging:: *note server-configuration:: *note
large-page-support:: *note error-log-unix:: *note error-log-syslog::
*note not-enough-file-handles:: *note problems-with-mysql-sock:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
time-zone-support:: *note mysql-server:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note
mysqld-safe:: *note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures::
*note option-defaults-equals:: *note programs-overview:: *note
packet-too-large:: *note file-permissions:: *note multiple-servers::
*note multiple-unix-servers:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note automatic-start:: *note
starting-server:: *note testing-server:: *note error-log:: *note
timezone-problems:: *note starting-server-troubleshooting:: *note
option-files::

*note migrating-from-year2:: *note
replication-solutions-backups-read-only:: *note
replication-solutions-backups-mysqldump:: *note backup-and-recovery::
*note backup-types:: *note backup-strategy-summary:: *note
innodb-buffer-pool:: *note optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
mysql-install-wizard-install-type:: *note
cleartext-pluggable-authentication:: *note connecting:: *note
contributors:: *note charset-unicode-conversion:: *note
mysqldump-copying-to-other-server:: *note copying-databases:: *note
create-table:: *note replication-howto-mysqldump:: *note
replication-howto-rawdata:: *note using-innodb-tables:: *note
mysql-installation-windows-path:: *note backup-methods:: *note
innodb-file-defragmenting:: *note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution::
*note downgrade-troubleshooting:: *note downgrade-binary-package:: *note
mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump-sql-format:: *note
mysqldump-stored-programs:: *note mysqldump-definition-data-dumps::
*note backup-policy:: *note backup-strategy-example:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note bug-reports:: *note
replication-howto:: *note identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note
innochecksum:: *note innodb-backup:: *note uln-installation:: *note
load-data:: *note load-xml:: *note mysqldump-copying-database:: *note
identifier-mapping:: *note innodb-migration:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note server-logs::
*note mysqldump-tips:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-example-data:: *note mysql-cluster-overview::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note replication-howto-masterstatus::
*note mysql-cluster-backup:: *note programs-overview:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::
*note mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note
problems-with-float:: *note innodb-purge-configuration:: *note
rebuilding-tables:: *note reloading-delimited-text-dumps:: *note
reloading-sql-format-dumps:: *note replication-solutions-partitioning::
*note ndb-restore-to-more-nodes:: *note
performance-schema-restrictions:: *note view-restrictions:: *note
log-destinations:: *note log-file-maintenance:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note replication-howto-existingdata:: *note
no-matching-rows:: *note program-options:: *note windows-start-service::
*note mysql-config-wizard-starting:: *note blob:: *note features:: *note
innodb-system-tablespace:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
uninstall-plugin:: *note upgrade-binary-package:: *note
using-mysqldump:: *note option-files:: *note
replication-solutions-backups:: *note
replication-solutions-diffengines:: *note mysql-nutshell:: *note
xml-functions::

*note problems-connecting::

*note mysqldumpslow:: *note programs-overview:: *note slow-query-log::

*note backup-and-recovery:: *note backup-types:: *note contributors::
*note backup-methods:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
programs-overview:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note backup-types:: *note charset-connection:: *note
copying-databases:: *note backup-methods:: *note
downgrade-troubleshooting:: *note load-data:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
programs-overview:: *note reloading-delimited-text-dumps:: *note
load-data-local:: *note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note MySQLInstallerConsole::

*note mysql-config-wizard-cmdline::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note cleartext-pluggable-authentication:: *note connecting:: *note
charset-connection:: *note c-api-example-programs:: *note mysqlshow::
*note programs-overview:: *note show-databases:: *note show-index::
*note show-table-status:: *note windows-testing:: *note testing-server::
*note windows-postinstallation::

*note show-tables::

*note show-columns::

*note cleartext-pluggable-authentication:: *note
monitor-innodb-mutex-waits-performance-schema:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
programs-overview:: *note custom-benchmarks:: *note
c-api-threaded-clients::

*note mysql-test-suite::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition::

*note mysql-cluster-sci-definition::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool::

*note mysql-cluster-programs:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::
*note mysql-cluster-sci-definition::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-cpcd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-delete-all::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note partitioning-key:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note files-table:: *note
partitions-table:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-operations::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-drop-index::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-drop-index:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-drop-table::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-remarks:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-first-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux::
*note mysql-cluster-install-debian:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-basics:: *note mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands::
*note mysql-cluster-programs:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-single-user-mode:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note mysql-cluster-backup:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::
*note ndb-restore-to-more-nodes:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-arbitrator-validity-detail:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-membership:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-memoryusage:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-nodes::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-transporters:: *note
mysql-cluster-backup-using-management-client::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note mysql-cluster-mgm-definition::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-first-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux::
*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-debian:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-cluster-config-example::
*note mysql-cluster-connection-strings:: *note mysql-cluster-basics::
*note mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands:: *note
mysql-cluster-nodes-groups:: *note mysql-cluster-programs:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-quick:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart:: *note
mysql-cluster-start-phases::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-backup-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-schema-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-sys-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-backup-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-schema-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-sys-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-backup-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-schema-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-sys-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader::

*note backup-types:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note mysql-cluster-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-overview:: *note mysql-cluster-programs:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-single-user-mode:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note mysql-cluster-backup:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::
*note ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes:: *note ndb-restore-to-more-nodes::

*note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-count::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations::

*note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl:: *note perl-support::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-first-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux::
*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-debian:: *note mysql-cluster-management:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note mysql-cluster-config-example::
*note mysql-cluster-basics:: *note mysql-cluster-params-ndbd:: *note
mysql-cluster-installation:: *note mysql-cluster-nodes-groups:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbmtd:: *note
mysql-cluster-configuration-overview:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::
*note mysql-cluster-quick:: *note mysql-cluster-config-starting:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart:: *note
mysql-cluster-sci-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-start-phases:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-nodes:: *note mysql-cluster-log-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-interconnects::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux::
*note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-basics:: *note mysql-cluster-params-ndbd:: *note
mysql-cluster-nodes-groups:: *note mysql-cluster-programs:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbmtd:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::
*note mysql-cluster-config-starting:: *note ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes::
*note mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-nodes:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-resources::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
multiple-windows-services::

*note windows-start-service:: *note windows-troubleshooting:: *note
windows-upgrading::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
multiple-windows-services::

*note windows-start-service:: *note windows-upgrading::

*note mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart::

*note resolve-stack-dump:: *note using-stack-trace::

*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition::

[index top]

*note creating-ssl-files-using-openssl::

*note verifying-md5-checksum::

*note c-api-building-clients::

[index top]

*note cannot-create:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
not-enough-file-handles:: *note myisam-repair:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note programs-overview:: *note perror::

*note binary-installation::

*note checking-gpg-signature::

*note ipv6-brokers::

*note solaris-installation-pkg::

*note solaris-installation-pkg::

*note perl-support::

*note assigning-passwords:: *note connecting:: *note
password-security-user:: *note memory-use:: *note what-is-crashing::
*note mysql-zap:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
starting-server-troubleshooting::

*note can-not-connect-to-server::

[index top]

*note error-log-rotation:: *note log-file-maintenance:: *note
query-log::

*note msql2mysql:: *note programs-overview:: *note replace-utility::
*note replication-solutions-scaleout::

*note programs-overview:: *note resolve-stack-dump:: *note
using-stack-trace::

*note programs-overview:: *note resolveip::

*note purge-binary-logs::

*note linux-installation-rpm:: *note installing-source-distribution::
*note checking-rpm-signature::

*note installing-source-distribution:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites::

*note backup-types:: *note replication-howto-rawdata:: *note
replication-howto-additionalslaves::

[index top]

*note windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service::

*note multiple-windows-services:: *note windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note multiple-windows-services::

*note windows-troubleshooting:: *note windows-upgrading::

*note windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note multiple-windows-services::

*note windows-start-service::

*note windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart::

*note backup-types:: *note replication-howto-rawdata::

*note pattern-matching::

*note mysql-cluster-install-example-data::

*note linux-installation-native::

*note windows-installation:: *note windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
windows-start-service::

*note setting-environment-variables::

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note ha-memcached-using::

*note not-enough-file-handles:: *note invoking-programs:: *note
setting-environment-variables:: *note manual-conventions::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note mysql-cluster-quick::

*note faqs-mysql-cluster::

*note faqs-mysql-cluster::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues:: *note ha-zfs-config::

*note creating-ssl-files-using-openssl::

*note security-guidelines::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note binary-installation::

*note osx-installation-prefpane::

[index top]

*note replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note backup-types:: *note
replication-howto-rawdata:: *note database-use:: *note bug-reports::
*note linux-installation-rpm:: *note osx-installation:: *note
solaris-installation:: *note solaris-installation-pkg:: *note
binary-installation:: *note installing-source-distribution:: *note
perl-installation:: *note replication-howto-additionalslaves:: *note
source-installation-methods:: *note source-installation-prerequisites::
*note which-version::

*note security-guidelines::

*note not-enough-file-handles:: *note osx-installation-notes:: *note
invoking-programs:: *note setting-environment-variables:: *note
manual-conventions::

*note mysql-commands::

*note ha-memcached-stats::

*note ha-memcached-stats:: *note security-guidelines::

*note osx-installation::

*note manual-conventions::

*note what-is-crashing::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note large-page-support:: *note
not-enough-file-handles:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note
mysqld-safe:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note
packet-too-large:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note pam-pluggable-authentication::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary:: *note
linux-installation-rpm:: *note solaris-installation:: *note
binary-installation::

*note linux-installation-rpm::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-install-configuration:: *note mysql-commands:: *note
pattern-matching::

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options::

[index top]

*note making-windows-dumps::

*note making-windows-dumps::

*note verifying-md5-checksum::

*note replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note
installing-source-distribution:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites::

*note load-data::

[index top]

*note compilation-problems:: *note keywords::

*note ha-memcached-install:: *note linux-installation-native:: *note
linux-installation-rpm:: *note ha-memcached-interfaces-libmemcached::

*note linux-installation-rpm::

[index top]

*note ha-zfs-config::

*note replication-howto-rawdata:: *note bug-reports::

*note setting-environment-variables::

Symbols | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R
| S | T | U | V | W | X | Y

[index top]

*note extensions-to-ansi::

[index top]

*note adding-functions:: *note create-function-udf:: *note
mathematical-functions:: *note partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note secure-client-programming::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note encryption-functions::

*note encryption-functions::

*note gis-property-functions:: *note gis-polygon-property-functions::

*note fetching-spatial-data:: *note gis-format-conversion-functions::

*note help:: *note string-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note fetching-spatial-data:: *note gis-format-conversion-functions::

*note gis-format-conversion-functions::

*note gis-format-conversion-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note group-by-functions:: *note date-and-time-type-syntax:: *note
group-by-optimization:: *note enum:: *note features:: *note set::

[index top]

*note derived-tables:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
information-functions:: *note select-benchmarking:: *note
optimizing-subqueries::

*note bit-value-literals:: *note string-functions::

*note group-by-functions:: *note bit-functions:: *note
extensions-to-ansi::

*note bit-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note string-functions::

*note group-by-functions:: *note bit-functions:: *note
extensions-to-ansi::

*note group-by-functions:: *note bit-functions:: *note
extensions-to-ansi::

[index top]

*note bit-value-literals:: *note cast-functions:: *note
string-functions-charset:: *note comparison-operators:: *note
date-and-time-type-conversion:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
expressions:: *note hexadecimal-literals:: *note differences-from-ansi::
*note datetime:: *note type-conversion:: *note user-variables::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note partitioning-linear-hash:: *note mathematical-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note gis-polygon-property-functions::

*note encryption-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
string-functions::

*note string-functions:: *note charset-unicode-sets::

*note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note information-functions::

*note comparison-operators:: *note join::

*note charset-collation-coercibility:: *note information-functions::

*note case-sensitivity:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
information-functions::

*note encryption-functions:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note group-by-functions:: *note cast-functions:: *note
string-functions-charset:: *note charset-repertoire:: *note
charset-collation-coercibility:: *note create-function-udf:: *note
logical-operators:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note sql-mode:: *note
show-create-view:: *note string-functions:: *note views-table:: *note
type-conversion:: *note xml-functions::

*note group-by-functions:: *note string-functions::

*note audit-log-file-formats:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note information-functions:: *note kill:: *note
show-processlist:: *note processlist-table:: *note threads-table::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note mathematical-functions:: *note
string-functions::

*note cast-functions:: *note charset-introducer:: *note
charset-literal:: *note comparison-operators:: *note faqs-cjk::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
timestamp-lookups:: *note lock-tables::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note group-by-functions:: *note counting-rows:: *note
create-function-udf:: *note group-by-optimization:: *note
innodb-restrictions-limitations:: *note internal-temporary-tables::
*note mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note
problems-with-null:: *note sql-mode:: *note features:: *note
view-updatability:: *note view-algorithms:: *note where-optimization::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note spatial-relation-functions-object-shapes::

*note encryption-functions:: *note server-system-variables::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note date-calculations:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note query-cache-operation::

*note data-type-defaults:: *note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::
*note query-cache-operation::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::
*note query-cache-operation::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note create-event:: *note
data-type-defaults:: *note date-and-time-functions::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note query-cache-operation::

*note create-event:: *note create-procedure:: *note create-trigger::
*note create-view:: *note grant-tables:: *note information-functions::
*note binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-functions:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note account-names:: *note
stored-objects-security::

*note connection-access:: *note create-event:: *note create-procedure::
*note create-trigger:: *note create-view:: *note query-cache-operation::
*note writing-authentication-plugins-proxy-users:: *note
information-functions:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note proxy-users::
*note replication-features-functions:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note set-password:: *note
account-names:: *note account-activity-auditing:: *note
stored-objects-security:: *note charset-metadata:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::
*note query-cache-operation:: *note time-zone-support::

[index top]

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note creating-database:: *note
drop-database:: *note getting-information:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note information-functions:: *note
known-issues:: *note charset-metadata::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note date-and-time-types:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note date-calculations:: *note expressions::

*note c-api-prepared-statement-problems:: *note cast-functions:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note locale-support:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note date-and-time-types:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
expressions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note locale-support:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note date-calculations:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-types::

*note encryption-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note data-type-defaults:: *note insert:: *note
miscellaneous-functions:: *note replace::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note encryption-functions:: *note server-options::

*note encryption-functions:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
server-options::

*note gis-general-property-functions::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

[index top]

*note string-functions-charset:: *note known-issues:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note string-functions::

*note encryption-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note contributors:: *note encryption-functions:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
charset-restrictions:: *note server-system-variables::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note gis-general-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note string-functions::

*note gis-polygon-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note cast-functions:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
expressions:: *note partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note xml-functions::

[index top]

*note string-functions::

*note string-functions:: *note set::

*note mathematical-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note mathematical-functions:: *note
miscellaneous-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
locale-support:: *note string-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note information-functions:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note audit-log-logging-control:: *note contributors:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note timestamp-lookups:: *note
replication-features-timezone::

[index top]

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-geometrycollection-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note gis-general-property-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions:: *note populating-spatial-columns:: *note
gis-data-formats::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note locale-support::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note
create-event:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
events-overview:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note internal-locking:: *note kill:: *note
lock-tables:: *note locking-functions:: *note mysql-change-user:: *note
replication-features-functions::

*note host-cache::

*note host-cache::

*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-threadstat::

*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-threadstat::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions:: *note spatial-types:: *note
string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note comparison-operators::

*note group-by-functions:: *note internal-temporary-tables:: *note
known-issues:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note features::

[index top]

*note bit-value-literals:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
charset-literal:: *note hexadecimal-literals:: *note
mathematical-functions:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note string-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

[index top]

*note string-functions-charset:: *note control-flow-functions:: *note
if:: *note known-issues:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note control-flow-functions:: *note problems-with-null::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note miscellaneous-functions::

*note miscellaneous-functions::

*note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note gis-polygon-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note comparison-operators::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note locking-functions:: *note
replication-features-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note locking-functions:: *note
replication-features-functions::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions::

*note gis-general-property-functions::

*note comparison-operators::

*note gis-general-property-functions::

[index top]

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note comparison-operators:: *note
create-table:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note getting-unique-id:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note
insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note lock-tables:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-insert-id:: *note
mysql-stmt-insert-id:: *note replication-features-auto-increment:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
stored-routines-last-insert-id:: *note replication-problems:: *note
view-updatability:: *note example-auto-increment::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note comparison-operators::

*note string-functions::

*note storage-requirements:: *note string-functions:: *note
gis-data-formats::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions:: *note spatial-types::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note load-xml:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note replication-features-functions:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note string-functions::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note date-and-time-functions::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note date-and-time-functions::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::

*note string-functions::

*note partitioning-linear-hash:: *note mathematical-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note cast-functions:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
string-functions:: *note charset-collation-information-schema::

*note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

[index top]

*note string-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note miscellaneous-functions:: *note
faqs-replication::

*note expressions::

*note fulltext-search::

*note fulltext-boolean:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note
fulltext-restrictions:: *note fulltext-search:: *note glossary:: *note
fulltext-natural-language::

*note two-digit-years:: *note group-by-functions:: *note
group-by-optimization:: *note mysql-indexes:: *note known-issues:: *note
numeric-type-syntax:: *note optimizing-subqueries:: *note sql-mode::
*note tp-thread-group-state-table:: *note features:: *note
view-updatability:: *note example-auto-increment:: *note
view-algorithms::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr:: *note using-spatial-indexes::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr:: *note using-spatial-indexes::

*note encryption-functions:: *note application-password-use:: *note
partitioning-key:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note identifiers::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note two-digit-years:: *note group-by-functions:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-problems:: *note group-by-optimization:: *note
mysql-indexes:: *note known-issues:: *note numeric-type-syntax:: *note
optimizing-subqueries:: *note problems-with-null:: *note features::
*note view-updatability:: *note view-algorithms:: *note
where-optimization::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note date-calculations:: *note
mathematical-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note sql-mode::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note date-calculations:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-types::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note locale-support:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note miscellaneous-functions:: *note stored-programs-logging::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note timestamp-initialization:: *note
create-procedure:: *note data-type-defaults:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note faqs-general:: *note time-zone-support::
*note replication-features-functions:: *note
replication-features-timezone:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note year::

*note control-flow-functions::

*note gis-geometrycollection-property-functions::

*note gis-polygon-property-functions::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions::

[index top]

*note string-functions::

*note string-functions::

*note old-client:: *note create-user:: *note encryption-functions::
*note application-password-use:: *note password-hashing:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-password::

*note string-functions::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

[index top]

*note connection-access:: *note assigning-passwords:: *note
create-user:: *note encryption-functions:: *note ignoring-user:: *note
application-password-use:: *note partitioning-key:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note password-hashing:: *note password-logging::
*note server-system-variables:: *note set-password:: *note
problems-connecting::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note function-resolution:: *note mathematical-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions:: *note gis-data-formats::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note gis-mysql-specific-functions::

*note gis-wkt-functions::

*note gis-wkb-functions::

*note string-functions::

*note function-optimization:: *note partitioning-hash:: *note
mathematical-functions::

*note partitioning-linear-hash:: *note mathematical-functions::

*note contributors::

[index top]

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note mysql-real-escape-string:: *note string-functions:: *note
string-literals::

[index top]

*note mathematical-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note create-procedure:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note function-optimization:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note mathematical-functions:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note server-system-variables::

*note query-cache-operation::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
do:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note internal-locking:: *note
lock-tables:: *note locking-functions:: *note
replication-features-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note mathematical-functions:: *note precision-math:: *note
precision-math-examples:: *note precision-math-rounding::

*note call:: *note delete:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
mysql-affected-rows:: *note replication-features-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

[index top]

*note information-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note information-functions:: *note
charset-metadata::

*note ha-memcached-operations::

*note server-system-variables::

*note encryption-functions::

*note encryption-functions:: *note application-password-use::

*note encryption-functions:: *note application-password-use:: *note
security-guidelines::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note adding-udf:: *note mathematical-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
miscellaneous-functions:: *note replication-features:: *note
tp-thread-group-stats-table::

*note adding-functions:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

*note gis-general-property-functions::

*note gis-linestring-property-functions:: *note
spatial-operator-functions::

*note group-by-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note features::

*note group-by-functions::

*note group-by-functions::

*note group-by-functions::

*note date-and-time-types:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
locale-support::

*note using-date:: *note string-comparison-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note string-functions::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note account-activity-auditing:: *note string-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note adding-udf:: *note group-by-functions:: *note
date-and-time-type-syntax:: *note group-by-optimization:: *note
problems-with-null:: *note enum:: *note features:: *note set:: *note
view-updatability:: *note view-algorithms::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note information-functions:: *note
charset-metadata::

[index top]

*note mathematical-functions::

*note server-system-variables::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note cast-functions:: *note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note date-calculations::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note partitioning-hash:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note partitioning-pruning:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-types::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note partitioning-pruning:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-types:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note spatial-relation-functions-object-shapes::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note charset-conversion:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note string-functions::

*note mathematical-functions::

[index top]

*note string-functions-charset:: *note string-functions::

*note encryption-functions:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note encryption-functions::

*note encryption-functions:: *note string-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::
*note query-cache-operation:: *note timestamp-lookups:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-range:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note timezone-problems::

*note xml-functions::

*note cast-functions:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
charset-repertoire:: *note string-functions:: *note
charset-collation-information-schema::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note charset-collation-coercibility:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-proxy-users:: *note
information-functions:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note proxy-users::
*note replication-features-functions:: *note account-activity-auditing::
*note charset-metadata:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::
*note time-zone-support::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note function-optimization:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note miscellaneous-functions:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-functions:: *note
binary-log-setting:: *note stored-programs-logging::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note miscellaneous-functions::

[index top]

*note insert-on-duplicate:: *note miscellaneous-functions::

*note group-by-functions::

*note group-by-functions::

*note group-by-functions::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note audit-log-file-formats:: *note
case-sensitivity:: *note charset-collation-coercibility:: *note
information-functions:: *note replication-features-functions:: *note
charset-metadata::

[index top]

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note server-system-variables::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-types::

*note date-and-time-functions::

*note spatial-relation-functions-mbr::

[index top]

*note gis-point-property-functions:: *note gis-data-formats::

[index top]

*note gis-point-property-functions::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note date-calculations:: *note
partitioning-hash:: *note partitioning-handling-nulls:: *note
partitioning-management-range-list:: *note partitioning-pruning:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note partitioning-types:: *note
partitioning-range::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions::

C | E | F | G | I | K | N | P | R | S | T | U | V

[index top]

*note charset-introducer:: *note charset-mysql:: *note charset-literal::
*note charset-column:: *note charset-database:: *note
show-character-set:: *note charset-charsets:: *note charset-table::
*note character-sets-table::

*note collation-character-set-applicability-table::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note charset-configuration:: *note
charset-mysql:: *note information-schema-optimization:: *note
show-collation:: *note collations-table::

*note column-privileges-table::

*note information-schema-optimization:: *note show-columns:: *note
columns-table:: *note innodb-buffer-page-table:: *note
innodb-buffer-page-lru-table:: *note innodb-buffer-pool-stats-table::
*note innodb-cmp-table:: *note innodb-cmpmem-table:: *note
innodb-lock-waits-table:: *note innodb-locks-table:: *note
innodb-trx-table::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-sql-statements:: *note server-system-variables::
*note show-engines:: *note engines-table::

*note events-metadata:: *note events-configuration:: *note
replication-features-invoked:: *note show-events:: *note events-table::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-i_s-tables:: *note mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note files-table::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-management:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note mysql-cluster-replication::
*note show-status:: *note status-table::

*note show-variables:: *note variables-table::

[index top]

*note innodb-information-schema:: *note glossary:: *note
data-directory::

*note faqs-cjk::

*note adding-collation-choosing-id::

*note faqs-cjk:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
performance-schema-quick-start::

*note innodb-check-availability:: *note performance-schema-quick-start::
*note mysql-cluster-sql-statements::

*note events-metadata:: *note replication-features-invoked:: *note
stored-program-restrictions:: *note events-privileges::

*note alter-logfile-group:: *note alter-tablespace:: *note
create-logfile-group:: *note create-tablespace:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-storage-requirements:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics::

*note innodb-change-buffer::

*note glossary:: *note innodb-compression-tuning:: *note
innodb-information-schema-examples-compression-sect::

*note innodb-information-schema-examples-compression-sect::

*note innodb-information-schema-examples::

*note innodb-information-schema-examples::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-information-schema-examples::

*note constraint-foreign-key:: *note create-table-foreign-keys::

*note partitioning-handling-nulls:: *note partitioning-key:: *note
partitioning-info:: *note partitioning-columns-range:: *note
server-options::

*note innodb-information-schema:: *note plugin-loading:: *note
audit-log-installation:: *note obtaining-plugin-information:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note partitioning:: *note
plugin-api-characteristics:: *note plugin-api-components:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note server-plugin-descriptors::
*note socket-pluggable-authentication:: *note
test-pluggable-authentication:: *note thread-pool-installation:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication:: *note writing-audit-plugins:: *note
writing-daemon-plugins:: *note writing-full-text-plugins:: *note
writing-information-schema-plugins:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

*note information-functions:: *note threads-table:: *note
innodb-information-schema-examples::

*note faqs-stored-procs::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics::

*note innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note index-hints:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note alter-table:: *note
innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
server-options::

*note faqs-triggers::

*note view-updatability::

*note innodb-change-buffer:: *note
innodb-information-schema-buffer-pool-tables:: *note
innodb-buffer-page-table:: *note innodb-buffer-page-lru-table::

*note innodb-information-schema-buffer-pool-tables:: *note
innodb-buffer-page-lru-table::

*note innodb-buffer-pool:: *note
innodb-information-schema-buffer-pool-tables:: *note
innodb-buffer-pool-stats-table::

*note innodb-information-schema-compression-tables:: *note
innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmp:: *note
innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem:: *note
innodb-compression-tuning-monitoring:: *note innodb-cmp-table:: *note
innodb-information-schema-examples-compression-sect::

*note innodb-information-schema-compression-tables:: *note
innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmp:: *note
innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem:: *note innodb-cmp-table::

*note innodb-information-schema-compression-tables:: *note
innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem:: *note innodb-cmpmem-table::
*note innodb-information-schema-examples-compression-sect::

*note innodb-information-schema-compression-tables:: *note
innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem:: *note innodb-cmpmem-table::

*note innodb-information-schema-transactions:: *note
innodb-information-schema-understanding-innodb-locking:: *note
innodb-information-schema-internal-data:: *note
innodb-lock-waits-table::

*note innodb-information-schema-transactions:: *note
innodb-information-schema-understanding-innodb-locking:: *note
innodb-information-schema-internal-data:: *note
innodb-lock-waits-table:: *note innodb-locks-table:: *note
innodb-trx-table::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-information-schema-transactions:: *note
innodb-information-schema-understanding-innodb-locking:: *note
innodb-information-schema-internal-data:: *note innodb-locks-table::
*note innodb-trx-table:: *note innodb-information-schema-examples::

[index top]

*note information-schema-optimization:: *note key-column-usage-table::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-transactions::

*note mysql-cluster-i_s-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
ndb-transid-mysql-connection-map-table::

[index top]

*note faqs-stored-procs:: *note show-procedure-status:: *note
parameters-table:: *note routines-table::

*note partitioning-handling-nulls:: *note partitioning-info:: *note
information-schema-optimization:: *note partitioning:: *note
show-table-status:: *note partitions-table:: *note tables-table::

*note install-plugin:: *note obtaining-plugin-information:: *note
plugins-table::

*note thread-information:: *note kill:: *note
innodb-information-schema-internal-data:: *note show-processlist:: *note
innodb-trx-table:: *note processlist-table:: *note
innodb-information-schema-examples::

*note show-profile:: *note profiling-table::

[index top]

*note information-schema-optimization:: *note
referential-constraints-table::

*note information-schema-introduction:: *note faqs-stored-procs:: *note
show-procedure-status:: *note stored-routines-metadata:: *note
routines-table::

[index top]

*note schema-privileges-table::

*note grant-tables:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-databases:: *note schemata-table::

*note mysql-cluster-management:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note mysql-cluster-replication::
*note show-status:: *note status-table::

*note show-variables:: *note variables-table::

*note analyze-table:: *note information-schema-optimization:: *note
show-index:: *note statistics-table::

[index top]

*note information-schema-optimization:: *note
referential-constraints-table:: *note table-constraints-table::

*note table-privileges-table::

*note information-schema-introduction:: *note
information-schema-optimization:: *note show-table-status:: *note
show-tables:: *note tables-table::

*note tablespaces-table::

*note thread-pool-i_s-tables:: *note tp-thread-group-state-table:: *note
thread-pool-components::

*note thread-pool-i_s-tables:: *note tp-thread-group-stats-table:: *note
tp-thread-state-table:: *note thread-pool-components::

*note thread-pool-i_s-tables:: *note tp-thread-group-state-table:: *note
tp-thread-state-table:: *note thread-pool-components:: *note
thread-pool-installation::

*note information-schema-optimization:: *note show-create-trigger::
*note show-triggers:: *note triggers-table:: *note trigger-metadata::

[index top]

*note user-privileges-table::

[index top]

*note information-schema-optimization:: *note show-create-view:: *note
views-table:: *note view-metadata::

A | C | E | F | I | R | S | U

[index top]

*note table-scan-avoidance:: *note explain-output:: *note
nested-loop-joins::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note explain-extended:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note order-by-optimization:: *note
range-optimization:: *note select::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note merge-table-advantages:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note subquery-optimization::

[index top]

*note explain-output::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note nested-loop-joins::

*note explain-output:: *note index-merge-optimization::

*note explain-output:: *note optimizing-subqueries:: *note
subquery-optimization::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note group-by-optimization:: *note
index-merge-optimization:: *note nested-loop-joins:: *note
range-optimization::

*note explain-output:: *note explain-extended:: *note index-statistics::
*note merge-table-advantages:: *note mysql-cluster-system-variables::
*note subquery-optimization::

*note explain-output:: *note is-null-optimization:: *note
subquery-optimization::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note explain-extended:: *note
range-optimization:: *note select::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note optimizing-subqueries:: *note
subquery-optimization::

Symbols | A | B | C | D | E | I | L | N | O | R | X

[index top]

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note cast-functions:: *note expressions::
*note numeric-type-syntax:: *note partitioning-limitations::

*note expressions:: *note logical-operators:: *note
operator-precedence::

*note comparison-operators:: *note operator-precedence:: *note
range-optimization::

*note arithmetic-functions::

*note bit-functions:: *note create-table:: *note
partitioning-limitations::

*note logical-operators:: *note extensions-to-ansi::

*note comparison-operators:: *note index-btree-hash:: *note
explain-output:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence::
*note range-optimization::

*note bit-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
partitioning-limitations::

*note comparison-operators:: *note index-btree-hash:: *note
explain-output:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence::
*note range-optimization::

*note comparison-operators:: *note index-btree-hash:: *note
explain-output:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence::
*note range-optimization:: *note working-with-null::

*note comparison-operators:: *note explain-output:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence:: *note
range-optimization:: *note working-with-null::

*note bit-functions:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
partitioning-limitations::

*note comparison-operators:: *note index-btree-hash:: *note
explain-output:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence::
*note range-optimization::

*note comparison-operators:: *note explain-output:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence:: *note
range-optimization:: *note type-conversion::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note numeric-type-syntax:: *note
partitioning-limitations::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note cast-functions:: *note expressions::
*note numeric-type-syntax:: *note partitioning-limitations::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note partitioning-limitations:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note assignment-operators:: *note operator-precedence:: *note
set-variable:: *note user-variables::

*note assignment-operators:: *note comparison-operators:: *note
index-btree-hash:: *note explain-output:: *note extensions-to-ansi::
*note operator-precedence:: *note range-optimization:: *note
subquery-restrictions:: *note set-variable:: *note
string-comparison-functions:: *note user-variables:: *note
working-with-null::

*note bit-functions:: *note expressions:: *note operator-precedence::
*note partitioning-limitations::

*note bit-functions:: *note partitioning-limitations::

*note string-functions-charset:: *note charset-collate-precedence::
*note expressions:: *note logical-operators:: *note extensions-to-ansi::
*note operator-precedence:: *note sql-mode::

*note bit-functions:: *note partitioning-limitations::

[index top]

*note index-btree-hash:: *note create-table:: *note
index-merge-optimization:: *note logical-operators:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note range-optimization:: *note
subquery-restrictions:: *note row-constructor-optimization:: *note
searching-on-two-keys:: *note selecting-rows:: *note
string-comparison-functions:: *note subquery-optimization:: *note
view-algorithms::

[index top]

*note comparison-operators:: *note index-btree-hash:: *note
explain-output:: *note range-optimization:: *note type-conversion::

*note cast-functions:: *note optimize-character:: *note
pattern-matching:: *note sorting-rows::

[index top]

*note case:: *note control-flow-functions:: *note expressions:: *note
extensions-to-ansi::

*note control-flow-functions::

*note control-flow-functions::

*note control-flow-functions::

[index top]

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note partitioning-limitations::

[index top]

*note comparison-operators::

*note comparison-operators::

*note string-comparison-functions::

*note comparison-operators::

*note comparison-operators::

*note string-comparison-functions::

*note regexp::

*note regexp::

*note regexp::

*note regexp::

*note string-functions::

[index top]

*note explain-output:: *note operator-precedence:: *note
range-optimization:: *note subquery-restrictions:: *note
type-conversion::

*note operator-precedence::

*note comparison-operators::

*note comparison-operators::

*note comparison-operators:: *note problems-with-null:: *note
range-optimization:: *note working-with-null::

*note comparison-operators:: *note explain-output:: *note
is-null-optimization:: *note problems-with-null:: *note
range-optimization:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
subquery-optimization:: *note working-with-null::

[index top]

*note request-access:: *note cast-functions:: *note charset-mysql::
*note index-btree-hash:: *note performance-schema-pre-filtering:: *note
explain-output:: *note extended-show:: *note help:: *note faqs-cjk::
*note mysql-server-side-help:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
operator-precedence:: *note pattern-matching:: *note
mysql-cluster-sql-statements:: *note range-optimization:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note show-character-set:: *note
show-collation:: *note show-columns:: *note show-databases:: *note
show-events:: *note show-open-tables:: *note show-procedure-status::
*note show-status:: *note show-table-status:: *note show-tables:: *note
show-triggers:: *note show-variables:: *note account-names:: *note
string-comparison-functions:: *note string-literals:: *note
structured-system-variables:: *note char:: *note set:: *note
using-system-variables::

*note faqs-cjk::

*note range-optimization:: *note show::

*note known-issues::

[index top]

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note mathematical-functions::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note mathematical-functions::

*note logical-operators:: *note sql-mode::

*note pattern-matching:: *note string-comparison-functions::

*note extensions-to-ansi:: *note pattern-matching:: *note
string-comparison-functions::

*note pattern-matching:: *note string-comparison-functions::

[index top]

*note expressions:: *note grant:: *note index-merge-optimization:: *note
logical-operators:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
operator-precedence:: *note range-optimization:: *note
row-constructor-optimization:: *note searching-on-two-keys:: *note
selecting-rows:: *note sql-mode:: *note string-comparison-functions::
*note subquery-optimization::

[index top]

*note extensions-to-ansi:: *note operator-precedence:: *note
pattern-matching:: *note regexp:: *note charset-restrictions::

*note pattern-matching:: *note regexp:: *note charset-restrictions::

[index top]

*note group-by-functions:: *note logical-operators::

Symbols | A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P
| Q | R | S | T | U | V | W | X | Y | Z

[index top]

*note ansi-diff-comments:: *note replace-utility::

*note comp-err:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note replace-utility:: *note
server-options:: *note dbug-package::

*note windows-installer-msi-quiet::

*note linux-installation-debian::

*note windows-installer-msi-quiet::

*note windows-installer-msi-quiet::

*note windows-installer-msi-quiet::

*note windows-installer-msi-quiet::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note comp-err:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-waitpid:: *note
mysql-zap:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog::
*note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note perror:: *note
replace-utility:: *note resolveip:: *note server-options:: *note
features:: *note command-line-options::

[index top]

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note myisamchk-other-options::

*note mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisam-optimization:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
myisamchk-other-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note mysqldump-sql-format:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqldump-sql-format:: *note identifier-mapping:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note rebuilding-tables:: *note
reloading-sql-format-dumps:: *note upgrade-binary-package::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note adding-udf:: *note server-options::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note myisam-optimization:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note myisamchk-other-options::

*note compatibility:: *note server-options::

*note pam-pluggable-authentication::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump::

*note audit-log-options-variables:: *note audit-log-installation::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note mysql-commands:: *note
mysql-command-options::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-repair-options::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note myisamchk-other-options::
*note server-options::

*note solaris-installation::

*note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisampack::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note mysqlbinlog-row-events:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note replication-rbr-usage:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note data-directory-initialization:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-install-db:: *note
mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note multiple-servers:: *note
server-options:: *note starting-server-troubleshooting::

*note windows-create-option-file:: *note mysql-config-wizard-cmdline::
*note mysql-server:: *note windows-troubleshooting::

*note mysql-logging:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysql-tips:: *note point-in-time-recovery::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note ipv6-server-config:: *note
ipv6-remote-connections:: *note ipv6-local-connections:: *note
ipv6-support:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note ipv6-brokers:: *note multiple-servers:: *note server-options::
*note problems-connecting::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-rules-db-options:: *note replication-rules:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note binary-log::

*note binary-log-formats:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-general::
*note faqs-stored-procs:: *note binary-log-setting:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-starting:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-unsupported::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-rules-db-options:: *note replication-rules:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note binary-log::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note binary-log-setting::

*note replication-rbr-usage::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc::

*note myisamchk-other-options::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note mysql-install-db::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note
myisamchk-check-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap::

*note innochecksum:: *note mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisam-ftdump:: *note myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
mysql-config-wizard-cmdline:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck::
*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note
ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes::

*note compilation-problems:: *note mysql-config::

*note faqs-cjk:: *note server-options:: *note charset-cp932::

*note charset-configuration:: *note charset-applications:: *note
faqs-cjk:: *note charset-server::

*note cannot-initialize-character-set:: *note charset-configuration::
*note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note comp-err::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note mysqlcheck::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note mysqlcheck::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool::

*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note server-options::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note compiling-for-debugging:: *note compilation-problems:: *note
source-configuration-options::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note compiling-for-debugging:: *note compilation-problems:: *note
source-configuration-options::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note compiling-plugin-libraries:: *note installing-development-tree::
*note source-configuration-options:: *note multiple-unix-servers:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note charset-configuration:: *note charset-applications:: *note
charset-server::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note option-modifiers::

*note limit-optimization:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqlimport::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqlslap::

*note program-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note server-system-variables::

*note mysqldump::

*note program-options::

*note connection-compression-control:: *note mysql-command-options::
*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap::
*note program-options::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysql-cluster-config-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysql-cluster-install-first-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-example:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note mysql-cluster-config-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note error-log-windows:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting:: *note resetting-permissions-windows:: *note
server-options:: *note windows-start-command-line:: *note
windows-server-first-start::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-common::
*note server-options::

*note making-windows-dumps::

*note mysqld-safe:: *note server-options::

*note myisamchk-repair-options::

*note myisam-ftdump:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlshow::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysql-install-db::

*note mysqlslap::

[index top]

*note adding-character-set:: *note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source::
*note cannot-initialize-character-set:: *note comp-err:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-source:: *note compiling-for-debugging::
*note libmysqld-compiling:: *note source-ssl-library-configuration::
*note debugging-client:: *note installing-source-distribution:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-threads:: *note mysqlbinlog::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
partitioning:: *note performance-schema-build-configuration:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
archive-storage-engine:: *note blackhole-storage-engine:: *note
example-storage-engine:: *note federated-storage-engine:: *note
dba-dtrace-server:: *note crashing:: *note which-version::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started:: *note innochecksum:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysqlaccess::
*note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd:: *note myisamchk-other-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note mysqldump-copying-to-other-server:: *note mysqldump-sql-format::
*note mysqldump-copying-database:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note rebuilding-tables:: *note
reloading-sql-format-dumps::

*note windows-create-option-file:: *note data-directory-initialization::
*note source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-install-db:: *note
mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
multiple-servers:: *note multiple-unix-servers:: *note server-options::
*note multiple-data-directories:: *note data-directory:: *note
starting-server-troubleshooting:: *note option-files::

*note windows-create-option-file:: *note osx-installation-notes:: *note
mysql-server:: *note windows-troubleshooting:: *note
windows-restrictions::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note comp-err:: *note compiling-for-debugging:: *note
my-print-defaults:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
windows-start-command-line:: *note dbug-package:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note starting-server-troubleshooting::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin::
*note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap::

*note comp-err:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade::
*note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap::

*note source-configuration-options:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note c-api-plugin-functions:: *note client-plugin-descriptors:: *note
connection-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade::
*note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap::
*note native-pluggable-authentication:: *note
old-native-pluggable-authentication:: *note pluggable-authentication::
*note writing-authentication-plugins-setup::

*note user-names:: *note charset-configuration:: *note
charset-applications:: *note charset-connection:: *note
mysql-batch-commands:: *note load-data:: *note mysql-command-options::
*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note server-options::
*note server-system-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note time-zone-support:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note structured-system-variables::

*note charset-applications:: *note charset-server::

*note charset-applications:: *note charset-server::

*note option-file-options:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note
mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow::
*note mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note
server-options:: *note option-files:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note option-file-options:: *note
password-security-user:: *note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note
my-print-defaults:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note
mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow::
*note mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note
libmysqld-options:: *note resetting-permissions-unix:: *note
resetting-permissions-windows:: *note multiple-servers:: *note
multiple-unix-servers:: *note server-options:: *note
multiple-windows-services:: *note
multiple-windows-command-line-servers:: *note windows-start-service::
*note mysql-config-wizard-starting::

*note option-file-options:: *note environment-variables:: *note
my-print-defaults:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note server-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all::

*note external-locking::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note server-system-variables:: *note using-system-variables::

*note myisam-start::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqlimport:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note using-stack-trace::

*note encryption-functions:: *note flush:: *note server-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note myisamchk-other-options::

*note mysqlslap::

*note option-modifiers::

*note innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
ndb-restore-to-more-nodes::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note plugin-loading::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note myisam-ftdump:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool::

*note mysqldump::

[index top]

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqldump::

*note myisam-check:: *note innochecksum:: *note load-xml:: *note
docker-mysql-more-topics:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note myisamchk-table-info:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-shutdown-restart:: *note command-line-options::
*note mysql-cluster-backup-using-management-client::

*note mysql-config::

*note mysql-config::

*note ha-memcached-install::

*note cleartext-pluggable-authentication:: *note mysql-command-options::
*note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication::

*note ha-memcached-install:: *note ha-memcached-using-dtrace::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note ha-memcached-interfaces-php::

*note plugin-loading::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note ha-memcached-install::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note source-configuration-options:: *note load-data-local::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysql-cluster-config-starting::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data::

*note events-configuration::

*note events-configuration::

*note mysqldump-stored-programs:: *note
mysqldump-definition-data-dumps:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note upgrade-binary-package::

*note mysqld-multi::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note mysql-logging:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm:: *note command-line-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-backup-using-management-client::

*note server-options::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqldump::

*note external-locking:: *note myisam-start:: *note server-options::
*note server-system-variables:: *note system-optimization:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note my-print-defaults::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note
mysql-commands:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlslap::

*note mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-first-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-check-options:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-zap::
*note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note using-stack-trace::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note mysqlcheck::

*note federated-storage-engine::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::

*note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note crashing::

*note backup-policy:: *note server-logs:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-threads::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note
myisampack:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-convert-table-format:: *note mysql-install-db:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysql-test-suite:: *note batch-mode::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter::

[index top]

*note mysql-command-options::

*note compiling-for-debugging:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldumpslow::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note server-options:: *note
unix-signal-response::

*note command-line-options:: *note using-system-variables::

*note log-destinations:: *note query-log:: *note command-line-options::
*note using-system-variables::

*note multiple-servers:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
query-log::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqlbinlog::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note invoking-programs::
*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file:: *note resolve-stack-dump:: *note
server-options:: *note manual-conventions:: *note command-line-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note comp-err::

*note myisamchk-general-options::

*note comp-err:: *note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
my-print-defaults:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-find-rows:: *note mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note
mysql-setpermission:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysql-waitpid:: *note
mysql-zap:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog::
*note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note programs-overview:: *note
perror:: *note resolve-stack-dump:: *note resolveip:: *note
server-options:: *note testing-server:: *note features:: *note
starting-server-troubleshooting:: *note tutorial:: *note option-files::
*note command-line-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqlbinlog-hexdump:: *note mysqlbinlog::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note invoking-programs::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-setpermission:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
option-defaults-equals:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
manual-conventions:: *note multiple-server-clients:: *note
option-files:: *note command-line-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note mysql-command-options::

[index top]

*note c-api-building-clients:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options::
*note ha-memcached-faq:: *note myisamlog:: *note mysql-waitpid:: *note
mysql-zap:: *note perror:: *note replace-utility:: *note resolveip::

*note mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note myisam-check:: *note
linux-installation-rpm:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note
myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow::
*note mysqlslap::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note mysqlimport::

*note mysqlimport::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note comp-err::

*note mysql-config::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note perror:: *note resolveip::

*note mysql-find-rows::

*note myisamchk-check-options::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note charset-applications::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note mysql-cluster-mgm-definition::
*note mysql-cluster-computer-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-api-definition::
*note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-multiple-nodes:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-storage-requirements:: *note
mysql-cluster-shm-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-tcp-definition::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbmtd:: *note
mysql-cluster-configuration-overview:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::
*note ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes:: *note mysql-cluster-sci-definition::
*note mysql-cluster-start-phases::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-turning-off::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note server-options::

*note server-options::

*note innodb-error-handling:: *note innodb-parameters::

*note innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note innodb-parameters::

*note server-options::

*note windows-symbolic-links::

*note replication-howto-rawdata::

*note binary-log::

*note mysqldump::

*note option-file-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note server-options:: *note multiple-windows-services:: *note
windows-start-service::

*note server-options:: *note multiple-windows-services:: *note
windows-start-service::

*note source-configuration-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note source-configuration-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysqlslap::

[index top]

*note myisampack:: *note mysqlbinlog::

*note myisampack::

[index top]

*note mysqldump::

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-repair-options::
*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlshow::

*note create-table::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note server-options::

*note mysqlshow::

*note myisamchk-repair-options::

[index top]

*note c-api-building-clients:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note perl-support-problems::

*note c-api-building-clients:: *note c-api-embedded-server-functions::
*note c-api-function-overview:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options::
*note myisam-ftdump:: *note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note
mysql-library-end:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all:: *note server-options:: *note
query-log::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note large-page-support:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note server-options::

*note server-options::

*note mysql-install-db::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note myisam-ftdump::

*note mysql-config::

*note mysql-config::

*note mysql-config::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note mysqlimport:: *note load-data-local::

*note load-xml:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note load-data-local::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note server-options:: *note windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::

*note mysqld-multi:: *note server-options:: *note query-log::

*note backup-strategy-summary:: *note replication-options-binary-log::
*note backup-methods:: *note backup-policy:: *note replication-bugs::
*note known-issues:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note
point-in-time-recovery:: *note purge-binary-logs:: *note
multiple-servers:: *note replication-solutions-switch:: *note
binary-log:: *note replication-problems:: *note replication-upgrade::
*note recovery-from-backups::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note binary-log::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note error-log-unix:: *note
error-log-windows:: *note error-log-syslog:: *note
docker-mysql-more-topics:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump:: *note
option-defaults-equals:: *note multiple-servers:: *note server-options::
*note log-file-maintenance:: *note windows-start-command-line:: *note
windows-server-first-start::

*note myisamlog:: *note server-options::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
slow-query-log::

*note replication-bugs:: *note binary-log::

*note server-options:: *note slow-query-log::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note slow-query-log::

*note server-options::

*note server-options:: *note server-status-variables::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note communication-errors:: *note error-log-filtering:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note gone-away:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note log-destinations::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all::

*note option-modifiers::

*note option-files::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqlimport::

*note concurrent-inserts:: *note insert:: *note table-locking::

*note identifier-case-sensitivity::

[index top]

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options::

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-check-options::
*note mysqlcheck:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note show-slave-status:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-howto-mysqldump:: *note backup-policy:: *note
server-logs:: *note mysqldump::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note slave-logs-status::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note change-master-to:: *note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note program-variables::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump::

*note replication-options-binary-log::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips::

*note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note repair-table::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note table-scan-avoidance:: *note optimizer-issues::

*note program-variables::

*note option-modifiers::

*note option-modifiers::

*note using-system-variables::

*note option-modifiers::

*note query-cache-configuration::

*note server-options:: *note using-system-variables::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note mysqlcheck::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
innodb-system-tablespace::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note plugin-loading::

*note mysql-plugin::

*note plugin-loading::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note key-cache-block-size:: *note server-options::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note myisamchk-memory::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note compilation-problems::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note installing-development-tree:: *note source-configuration-options::

*note problems-with-mysql-sock:: *note installing-development-tree::
*note source-configuration-options::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note mysqld-multi::

*note mysql-plugin:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqld-safe::

*note mysqld-safe::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note resolve-stack-dump::

*note docker-mysql-getting-started::

*note comp-err::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note perror::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note faqs-mysql-cluster::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster::
*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges::
*note mysql-cluster-basics:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-starting:: *note ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes:: *note
ndb-restore-to-more-nodes::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-config-starting::

*note mysql-cluster-config-starting::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note binary-log::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note optimize-table::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note ndb-transid-mysql-connection-map-table::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-config-starting::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::

*note mysql-cluster-configuration:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld::
*note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
mysql-cluster-basics:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-starting:: *note show-engines:: *note
engines-table::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump::

*note replication-implementation-details::

*note replication-implementation-details::

*note docker-mysql-more-topics::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump-definition-data-dumps:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump-definition-data-dumps:: *note mysqldump::

*note option-file-options:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi::
*note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note server-options:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note option-files::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqld-multi::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqldump::

*note myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes::
*note ndb-restore-to-more-nodes::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note resolve-stack-dump::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note libmysqld-compiling:: *note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note
myisamlog:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
disk-issues::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note server-options:: *note user-resources::

*note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqlhotcopy::

*note multiple-tables::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note server-options::

*note mysqlslap::

*note not-enough-file-handles:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqld-safe::
*note server-system-variables::

*note optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading:: *note mysqldump::

*note option-files::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysqldump::

*note comp-err::

*note comp-err::

[index top]

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note invoking-programs::
*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note server-options::

*note user-names:: *note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note downgrading:: *note
password-security-user:: *note innochecksum:: *note invoking-programs::
*note partitioning-key:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note
mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck::
*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note
mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note password-too-long:: *note
default-privileges:: *note windows-start-service:: *note
windows-start-command-line:: *note windows-testing:: *note
testing-server:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations:: *note problems-connecting::
*note upgrading:: *note windows-upgrading:: *note command-line-options::
*note windows-postinstallation::

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables::

*note server-options::

*note user-names:: *note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note
password-security-user:: *note backup-strategy-example:: *note
invoking-programs:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-convert-table-format:: *note mysql-setpermission:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note password-too-long:: *note
test-pluggable-authentication:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
command-line-options::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring::

*note error-log-windows:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note
multiple-servers:: *note server-options:: *note binary-log::

*note mysql-server::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow::
*note mysqlslap:: *note windows-testing::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note server-options::

*note c-api-plugin-functions:: *note client-plugin-descriptors:: *note
connection-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin::
*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note pluggable-authentication::
*note writing-authentication-plugins-setup::

*note mysql-plugin::

*note server-options::

*note audit-log-options-variables:: *note install-plugin:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note audit-log-installation:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note plugin-api-components:: *note
plugin-data-structures:: *note server-options:: *note
server-plugin-descriptors:: *note socket-pluggable-authentication::
*note test-pluggable-authentication:: *note plugin-api:: *note
thread-pool-installation:: *note writing-authentication-plugins-setup::
*note windows-pluggable-authentication::

*note server-options::

*note server-options::

*note source-configuration-options:: *note plugin-api-components::

*note plugin-loading:: *note mysql-plugin::

*note mysql-config::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note invoking-programs::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-config:: *note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-setpermission:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note multiple-servers:: *note multiple-unix-servers:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note starting-server-troubleshooting:: *note
multiple-server-clients::

*note server-options::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysqlslap::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source::

*note ha-memcached-install::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note option-file-options:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note server-options:: *note
upgrade-troubleshooting::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note multiple-unix-servers:: *note
windows-server-first-start:: *note windows-testing:: *note features::
*note multiple-server-clients::

[index top]

*note mysqldump::

*note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlslap::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file::

*note mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note external-locking::

*note myisamchk-memory:: *note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldump:: *note out-of-memory:: *note myisam-crash-recovery:: *note
option-files::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysqldump::

[index top]

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note ha-memcached-stats-general::
*note myisam-optimization:: *note myisamlog:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqldump:: *note myisamchk-other-options::

*note adding-udf:: *note myisam-repair:: *note binary-installation::
*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-check-options::
*note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note server-options::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note myisamchk-check-options::

*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
myisamchk-memory:: *note myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysql-find-rows:: *note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysqladmin::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-multiple-nodes:: *note
mysql-cluster-config-file:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::
*note mysql-cluster-rolling-restart::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-service:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note server-options:: *note multiple-windows-services:: *note
windows-start-service::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::

*note replication-rules:: *note replication-rules-examples:: *note
replication-options-slave::

*note replication-rules-examples:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note stored-program-restrictions::

*note replication-rules-examples::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-issues::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-rules-db-options:: *note replication-rules:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
replication-solutions-partitioning:: *note
replication-features-reserved-words:: *note
replication-features-temptables:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note show-slave-status:: *note commit:: *note binary-log:: *note
replication-rbr-usage::

*note replication-rules-table-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
replication-features-reserved-words:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note replication-features-temptables::
*note replication-rules-examples:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note show-slave-status:: *note blackhole-storage-engine:: *note
replication-rbr-usage::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-issues::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-rules-db-options:: *note replication-rules:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
replication-features-reserved-words:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note replication-rules-examples::
*note replication-options-slave:: *note show-slave-status:: *note
commit:: *note binary-log:: *note replication-rbr-usage::

*note replication-rules-table-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
replication-features-reserved-words:: *note
replication-features-temptables:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note show-slave-status:: *note blackhole-storage-engine:: *note
replication-rbr-usage::

*note replication-rules:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
replication-rbr-usage::

*note change-master-to:: *note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-rules-table-options:: *note replication-rules:: *note
replication-solutions-partitioning:: *note
replication-features-temptables:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note show-slave-status::

*note replication-rules-table-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note faqs-replication:: *note
replication-features-temptables:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note show-slave-status::

*note replication-features-views::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-administration-status:: *note show-slave-hosts::

*note replication-options-master:: *note show-slave-hosts::

*note show-slave-hosts::

*note replication-options-master:: *note show-slave-hosts::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
ndb-restore-to-fewer-nodes::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-pitr::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
ndb-restore-to-more-nodes::

*note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note mysqldump-stored-programs:: *note
mysqldump-definition-data-dumps:: *note mysqldump:: *note
upgrade-binary-package::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysql-find-rows:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

*note mysql-install-db::

[index top]

*note connection-options:: *note comp-err:: *note invoking-programs::
*note myisam-optimization:: *note mysql-commands:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
myisamchk-other-options::

*note myisam-check:: *note myisam-repair:: *note innochecksum:: *note
binary-installation:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note
myisam-ftdump:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysql-zap::
*note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note perror:: *note
replace-utility:: *note resolve-stack-dump:: *note resolveip:: *note
myisam-maintenance-schedule::

*note server-options::

*note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamchk-memory:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips::
*note server-system-variables::

*note server-options::

*note server-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-size-pl::

*note connection-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
password-hashing::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-general:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
show-slave-hosts::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-server::

*note myisamchk-other-options::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump::

*note myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note connection-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow::
*note mysqlslap:: *note multiple-servers:: *note
multiple-server-clients::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note replication-options-master:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note show-slave-hosts::

*note mysqlshow::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note unix-signal-response::

*note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysqld-multi:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlslap:: *note perror::
*note resolveip:: *note myisam-maintenance-schedule::

*note backup-methods:: *note backup-policy:: *note innodb-backup:: *note
mysqldump:: *note innodb-purge-configuration::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note mysqldump:: *note option-modifiers:: *note server-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note innodb-troubleshooting-datadict::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note faqs-cjk:: *note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::
*note charset-cp932::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note show-engines:: *note engines-table::

*note mysqldump-stored-programs::

*note mysqldump::

*note external-locking:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
system-optimization:: *note mysql-nutshell:: *note crashing::

*note adding-udf:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
create-function-udf:: *note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note
events-configuration:: *note flush:: *note install-plugin:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note udf-loading:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
pluggable-authentication:: *note resetting-permissions-generic:: *note
server-options:: *note system-schema:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
command-line-options:: *note privilege-changes::

*note host-cache:: *note server-options:: *note problems-connecting::

*note innodb-check-availability:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note faqs-replication:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note innodb-turning-off:: *note
replication-solutions-diffengines::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-install-db::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-option-tables:: *note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note debugging-server:: *note optimize-table:: *note server-options::
*note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note partitioning:: *note server-options::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap::

*note server-options::

*note plugin-loading::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-tips::

*note mysqldump-stored-programs::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note server-options::

*note mysqldump::

*note privileges-provided:: *note server-options:: *note
show-databases:: *note supporters::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections:: *note
replication-howto-existingdata:: *note start-slave:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-starting:: *note replication-problems:: *note
replication-upgrade::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections::

*note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note server-options::

*note large-page-support:: *note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note create-table:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
windows-symbolic-links:: *note symbolic-links-to-tables:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note error-log-syslog:: *note mysqld-safe::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note server-options::

*note mysqldump-stored-programs:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore::

*note mysql-find-rows::

*note mysql-upgrade::

*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlcheck::

*note mysqldump::

*note command-line-options::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-failover:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note replication-features-slaveerrors::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note mysqladmin::

*note server-options::

*note log-destinations:: *note slow-query-log::

*note multiple-servers:: *note slow-query-log::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note connection-options:: *note
connecting:: *note problems-with-mysql-sock:: *note invoking-programs::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
mysql-config:: *note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-setpermission:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note multiple-servers:: *note multiple-unix-servers:: *note
server-options:: *note server-plugin-descriptors:: *note
windows-testing:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
multiple-server-clients::

*note myisam-optimization:: *note myisamchk-other-options::

*note myisam-optimization:: *note myisamchk-other-options::

*note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamchk-memory:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note replication-options-binary-log::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note functions:: *note faqs-sql-modes:: *note server-options:: *note
sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

*note mysql-install-db::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note server-options::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin::
*note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note server-options::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
creating-ssl-files-using-openssl:: *note grant:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections:: *note ssl-libraries::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
grant:: *note replication-solutions-encrypted-connections:: *note
ssl-libraries::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
creating-ssl-files-using-openssl:: *note grant:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections::

*note connection-options:: *note
encrypted-connection-protocols-ciphers:: *note ssl-libraries::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
creating-ssl-files-using-openssl:: *note grant:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections::

*note c-api-encrypted-connections:: *note connection-options:: *note
using-encrypted-connections:: *note mysql-options::

*note connection-options:: *note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
load-data-local::

*note change-master-to:: *note connection-options:: *note
using-encrypted-connections:: *note source-ssl-library-configuration::
*note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data::

*note making-trace-files:: *note server-options:: *note
windows-start-command-line::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note point-in-time-recovery-times::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note point-in-time-recovery-positions:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-find-rows::

*note comp-err::

*note myisam-ftdump::

*note mysqlshow::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note point-in-time-recovery-times::

*note mysqlbinlog:: *note point-in-time-recovery-positions::

*note mysqlhotcopy::

*note large-page-support:: *note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqlaccess::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note resolve-stack-dump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note mysqlaccess:: *note option-files::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note error-log-syslog:: *note mysqld-safe::

*note mysqld-safe::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note myisamchk-check-options:: *note myisampack::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
server-options::

*note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note myisamchk-repair-options::
*note myisampack:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-config-wizard-cmdline:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysql-zap::
*note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-delete-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter:: *note server-options::

*note backup-types:: *note backup-methods:: *note
mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note using-mysqldump::

*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc::

*note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::

*note server-options::

*note mysqld-multi::

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options::

*note server-options::

*note myisampack::

*note manual-conventions::

*note using-gdb-on-mysqld::

*note server-options::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note time-zone-support:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note
replication-features-timezone:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
timezone-problems::

*note cannot-create:: *note myisamchk-memory:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisampack:: *note mysql-upgrade::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note multiple-servers:: *note server-options::
*note windows-start-service:: *note temporary-files::

*note windows-installation::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-transaction:: *note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-delete-all::

*note mysqldump-stored-programs:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables::

*note mysqldump::

[index top]

*note linux-installation-rpm:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options::
*note myisamchk-check-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysqlaccess::

*note user-names:: *note connection-options:: *note downgrading:: *note
invoking-programs:: *note ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note
myisamchk-repair-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlaccess:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note server-options:: *note
windows-testing:: *note testing-server:: *note upgrading:: *note
windows-postinstallation::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note myisam-table-formats:: *note myisamchk-repair-options:: *note
myisampack::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat::

*note myisam-repair:: *note myisamchk-check-options:: *note
myisam-storage-engine::

*note mysql-installer-catalog-dashboard::

*note mysql-upgrade::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common::

*note mysqlcheck::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqlimport:: *note c-api-threaded-clients::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note user-names:: *note connection-options:: *note
backup-strategy-example:: *note not-enough-file-handles:: *note
changing-mysql-user:: *note data-directory-initialization:: *note
invoking-programs:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-setpermission:: *note mysql-upgrade::
*note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqld-safe:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlhotcopy:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures::
*note option-defaults-equals:: *note resetting-permissions-unix:: *note
server-options:: *note socket-pluggable-authentication:: *note
program-options:: *note starting-server:: *note
test-pluggable-authentication:: *note option-files::

[index top]

*note comp-err:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-waitpid:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note perror:: *note
replace-utility:: *note resolve-stack-dump:: *note resolveip:: *note
server-options:: *note command-line-options::

*note myisam-check:: *note innochecksum:: *note
ha-memcached-cmdline-options:: *note ha-memcached-using-logs:: *note
my-print-defaults:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-waitpid:: *note
mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog-row-events:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqldumpslow::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-print-file:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd:: *note myisamchk-table-info:: *note
perror:: *note replace-utility:: *note server-options:: *note
command-line-options::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-config::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note mysql-batch-commands:: *note
my-print-defaults:: *note myisam-ftdump:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-convert-table-format:: *note
mysql-install-db:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note
mysql-waitpid:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog-row-events:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqldumpslow:: *note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd::
*note myisamchk-other-options:: *note perror:: *note server-options::
*note starting-server-troubleshooting:: *note replication-rbr-usage::
*note option-files:: *note command-line-options::

*note comp-err:: *note my-print-defaults:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-config:: *note
mysql-convert-table-format:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note mysql-waitpid::
*note mysqlaccess:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-common:: *note perror:: *note
resolve-stack-dump:: *note resolveip:: *note server-options:: *note
command-line-options::

*note mysql-upgrade::

*note bug-reports:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin::

[index top]

*note connection-options:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
server-options::

*note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisamlog:: *note myisampack::
*note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note myisamchk-general-options:: *note myisampack:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysqladmin::

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-waiter::

*note server-options:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysqldump::

*note mysql-install-db::

*note ha-memcached-install::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-source::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
source-configuration-options::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-source::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-source::

*note mysql-cluster-install-linux-source:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-windows-source:: *note
source-configuration-options::

*note performance-schema-build-configuration::

*note source-ssl-library-configuration:: *note
source-installation-prerequisites::

*note source-configuration-options::

*note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqlcheck::

[index top]

*note mysql-commands:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

*note load-xml:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config:: *note xml-functions::

[index top]

*note mysqldump::

*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlslap::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all::

A | C | D | E | F | G | I | L | P | R | S | T | U

[index top]

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided::

*note privileges-provided::

*note alter-database:: *note alter-table:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note rename-table::

*note alter-function:: *note alter-procedure:: *note
replication-options-binary-log:: *note create-procedure:: *note
drop-procedure:: *note grant:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
stored-routines-privileges::

[index top]

*note alter-table:: *note create-database:: *note create-table:: *note
grant:: *note privileges-provided:: *note rename-table::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note create-procedure:: *note
grant:: *note faqs-stored-procs:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note stored-routines-privileges::

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided::

*note create-temporary-table:: *note grant:: *note privileges-provided::

*note creating-accounts:: *note assigning-passwords:: *note
create-user:: *note drop-user:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note rename-user:: *note revoke::

*note alter-view:: *note create-view:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note view-restrictions::

[index top]

*note request-access:: *note adding-udf:: *note create-table:: *note
delete:: *note drop-function-udf:: *note drop-user:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note grant:: *note plugin-loading:: *note
udf-loading:: *note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note replace:: *note merge-storage-engine:: *note
uninstall-plugin::

*note access-control:: *note alter-table:: *note alter-view:: *note
create-view:: *note drop-database:: *note drop-table:: *note drop-view::
*note grant:: *note partitioning-management-range-list:: *note
performance-schema-table-characteristics:: *note privileges-provided::
*note rename-table:: *note truncate-table::

[index top]

*note alter-event:: *note create-event:: *note drop-event:: *note
events-overview:: *note events-syntax:: *note grant:: *note mysqldump::
*note privileges-provided:: *note show-create-event:: *note
show-events:: *note events-privileges::

*note create-procedure:: *note drop-procedure:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
stored-objects-security:: *note stored-routines-privileges::

[index top]

*note create-table:: *note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note grant::
*note grant-tables:: *note load-data:: *note load-xml:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note mysqldump:: *note privileges-provided::
*note select-into:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
string-functions:: *note blob:: *note problems-connecting::

[index top]

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided:: *note revoke:: *note
column-privileges-table:: *note schema-privileges-table:: *note
table-privileges-table:: *note user-privileges-table::

[index top]

*note alter-table:: *note grant:: *note privileges-provided::

*note request-access:: *note adding-udf:: *note alter-table:: *note
analyze-table:: *note assigning-passwords:: *note create-function-udf::
*note create-user:: *note create-view:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note grant:: *note insert:: *note
install-plugin:: *note plugin-loading:: *note udf-loading:: *note
optimize-table:: *note pluggable-storage:: *note privileges-provided::
*note rename-table:: *note repair-table:: *note replace:: *note
server-options:: *note stored-objects-security:: *note
events-privileges::

[index top]

*note flush:: *note grant:: *note lock-tables:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlhotcopy:: *note privileges-provided::

[index top]

*note creating-accounts:: *note innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note
events-configuration:: *note thread-information:: *note grant:: *note
client-connections:: *note information-schema-introduction:: *note
kill:: *note security-against-attack:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld::
*note privileges-provided:: *note show-engine:: *note show-processlist::
*note innodb-buffer-page-table:: *note innodb-buffer-page-lru-table::
*note innodb-buffer-pool-stats-table:: *note innodb-cmp-table:: *note
innodb-cmpmem-table:: *note innodb-lock-waits-table:: *note
innodb-locks-table:: *note innodb-trx-table:: *note processlist-table::
*note threads-table:: *note too-many-connections::

*note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-proxy-users:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
proxy-users:: *note default-privileges:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication::

*note proxy-users::

[index top]

*note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided::

*note request-access:: *note creating-accounts:: *note
encryption-functions:: *note flush:: *note grant:: *note grant-tables::
*note mysql-refresh:: *note mysql-reload:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlhotcopy:: *note privileges-provided:: *note reset:: *note
log-file-maintenance::

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided:: *note show-binary-logs:: *note
show-master-status:: *note show-slave-status::

*note replication-howto-repuser:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections::

[index top]

*note access-control:: *note request-access:: *note analyze-table::
*note checksum-table:: *note create-procedure:: *note
create-table-like:: *note create-table:: *note create-trigger:: *note
create-view:: *note delete:: *note explain:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note grant:: *note insert:: *note
lock-tables:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note optimize-table:: *note
performance-schema-table-characteristics:: *note privileges-provided::
*note repair-table:: *note view-restrictions:: *note show-create-view::
*note show-grants:: *note stored-objects-security:: *note
events-privileges:: *note merge-storage-engine:: *note trigger-syntax::
*note update::

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-databases::

*note explain:: *note grant:: *note mysqldump:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note view-restrictions:: *note show-create-view::
*note views-table::

*note request-access:: *note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note
mysql-shutdown:: *note mysqld-multi:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
server-shutdown::

*note account-management-statements:: *note alter-function:: *note
alter-server:: *note alter-view:: *note assigning-passwords:: *note
replication-options-binary-log:: *note binlog:: *note change-master-to::
*note charset-applications:: *note create-procedure:: *note
create-server:: *note create-trigger:: *note create-user:: *note
drop-server:: *note drop-user:: *note encryption-functions:: *note
grant:: *note client-connections:: *note replication-howto:: *note
kill:: *note security-against-attack:: *note faqs-stored-procs:: *note
time-zone-support:: *note mysql-dump-debug-info:: *note mysqladmin::
*note privileges-provided:: *note rename-user:: *note revoke:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-password:: *note set-transaction::
*note show-binary-logs:: *note show-grants:: *note show-master-status::
*note show-processlist:: *note show-slave-status:: *note start-slave::
*note stop-slave:: *note stored-objects-security:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note system-variable-privileges:: *note
too-many-connections::

[index top]

*note create-trigger:: *note drop-trigger:: *note grant:: *note
mysqldump:: *note privileges-provided:: *note show-create-trigger::
*note show-triggers:: *note triggers-table::

[index top]

*note assigning-passwords:: *note create-table:: *note create-trigger::
*note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note grant:: *note insert:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
performance-schema-table-characteristics:: *note
performance-schema-runtime-configuration:: *note
performance-schema-setup-tables:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
rename-user:: *note revoke:: *note stored-objects-security:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note trigger-syntax:: *note update::

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided::

A | D | E | H | I | M | N | O | P | R | S | T

[index top]

*note date-and-time-types:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
using-date:: *note sql-mode:: *note datetime::

*note function-resolution:: *note sql-mode:: *note show-create-view::
*note views-table::

*note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note mysql-tips:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysqldump:: *note identifiers:: *note
sql-mode:: *note string-literals::

[index top]

*note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note precision-math-expressions:: *note precision-math-examples:: *note
sql-mode::

[index top]

*note expressions:: *note operator-precedence:: *note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note create-procedure:: *note function-resolution:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note date-and-time-type-syntax:: *note sql-mode:: *note datetime::

*note sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note grant:: *note sql-mode::

*note create-table:: *note numeric-type-attributes:: *note sql-mode::
*note example-auto-increment::

*note sql-mode:: *note string-comparison-functions:: *note
string-literals::

*note create-table:: *note replication-features-directory:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note sql-mode:: *note
partitioning-subpartitions:: *note binary-log::

*note alter-table:: *note create-table:: *note plugin-loading:: *note
sql-mode:: *note storage-engine-setting:: *note
replication-solutions-diffengines::

*note sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note cast-functions:: *note
numeric-type-syntax:: *note out-of-range-and-overflow:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note sql-mode::

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note cast-functions:: *note
date-and-time-types:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note using-date::
*note sql-mode:: *note datetime::

*note create-table:: *note date-and-time-types:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note using-date:: *note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note counting-rows:: *note group-by-modifiers:: *note
group-by-handling:: *note sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note sql-mode:: *note string-type-syntax:: *note char::

*note expressions:: *note logical-operators:: *note
operator-precedence:: *note sql-mode::

*note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note numeric-type-syntax:: *note numeric-types:: *note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note constraint-invalid-data:: *note precision-math-expressions:: *note
faqs-sql-modes:: *note sql-mode::

*note constraint-invalid-data:: *note precision-math-expressions:: *note
faqs-sql-modes:: *note sql-mode::

[index top]

*note timestamp-initialization:: *note precision-math-expressions::
*note load-data:: *note faqs-sql-modes:: *note sql-mode::

A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | K | L | O | P | R | S | T | U | W |
X

[index top]

*note alter-database:: *note charset-applications:: *note
charset-database:: *note replication-rules-db-options:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note
replication-options-slave::

*note alter-event:: *note create-event:: *note events-metadata:: *note
events-overview:: *note events-syntax:: *note information-functions::
*note replication-features-current-user:: *note
replication-features-invoked:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
show-events:: *note implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging::
*note events-privileges:: *note events-table::

*note replication-features-invoked::

*note alter-function:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note stored-routines-syntax::

*note alter-logfile-group:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note files-table::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-remarks:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note
mysql-cluster-upgrade-downgrade::

*note alter-procedure:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note stored-routines-syntax::

*note alter-database::

*note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-create-alter-drop-server:: *note implicit-commit::

*note migrating-from-year2:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note alter-table-examples::
*note alter-table-partition-operations:: *note alter-table:: *note
innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note replication-options-binary-log::
*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note check-table:: *note
charset-column:: *note charset-conversion:: *note column-indexes:: *note
innodb-create-index-concurrency:: *note innodb-consistent-read:: *note
charset-unicode-conversion:: *note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note
create-index:: *note create-table:: *note
create-table-statement-retention:: *note creating-tables:: *note
using-innodb-tables:: *note creating-spatial-columns:: *note
creating-spatial-indexes:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
innodb-file-defragmenting:: *note drop-index:: *note
innodb-compression-usage:: *note innodb-create-index-examples:: *note
explain-output:: *note federated-usagenotes:: *note
innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note
forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note constraint-foreign-key:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note fulltext-search:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note
innodb-compression-internals:: *note innodb-create-index-recovery::
*note full-disk:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note myisam-repair::
*note information-functions:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-configuration:: *note index-statistics:: *note
innodb-row-format:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note insert-delayed::
*note mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note kill::
*note known-issues:: *note innodb-create-index-limitations:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-multiple-nodes:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-limits:: *note table-size-limit:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note lock-tables:: *note
partitioning-maintenance:: *note partitioning-management-hash-key::
*note partitioning-management-range-list:: *note merge-table-problems::
*note myisam-start:: *note myisam-table-formats:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note glossary:: *note mysql-info:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysql-cluster-config-example:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-example-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-operations:: *note optimize-table:: *note
out-of-range-and-overflow:: *note partitioning-overview:: *note
innodb-compression-background:: *note partitioning-management:: *note
partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note
partitioning-limitations-partitioning-keys-unique-keys:: *note
partitioning-limitations-storage-engines:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
alter-table-problems:: *note partitioning-columns-range:: *note
partitioning-range:: *note rebuilding-tables:: *note rename-table::
*note replication-features-auto-increment:: *note
replication-features-reserved-words:: *note
replication-features-more-columns:: *note partitioning-limitations::
*note view-restrictions:: *note log-destinations:: *note
server-options:: *note server-error-reference:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note binary-log-setting:: *note
storage-engine-setting:: *note show-engine:: *note show-index:: *note
show-warnings:: *note silent-column-changes:: *note
innodb-compression-syntax-warnings:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
string-type-syntax:: *note charset-table:: *note
temporary-table-problems:: *note ddl-log:: *note partitions-table::
*note statistics-table:: *note memory-storage-engine:: *note
myisam-storage-engine:: *note slow-query-log:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting-datadict:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-unsupported:: *note example-auto-increment::
*note replication-solutions-diffengines:: *note
symbolic-links-to-tables:: *note innodb-file-format-compatibility::
*note mysql-nutshell:: *note crashing:: *note temporary-files::

*note partitioning-management-range-list::

*note innodb-create-index-limitations::

*note load-data::

*note glossary::

*note replication-features-partitioning::

*note load-data::

*note replication-features-memory::

*note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution::

*note alter-table:: *note glossary::

*note partitioning-maintenance:: *note
partitioning-limitations-storage-engines::

*note partitioning-limitations-partitioning-keys-unique-keys::

*note partitioning-management-range-list:: *note
partitioning-limitations::

*note downgrading-to-previous-series::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series::

*note symbolic-links-to-tables::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-remarks:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-api-definition::

*note partitioning-maintenance::

*note partitioning-maintenance:: *note partitioning-management:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-issues::

*note ddl-log::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example::

*note glossary::

*note alter-tablespace:: *note create-tablespace:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note files-table::

*note alter-view:: *note information-functions:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note stored-program-restrictions::
*note implicit-commit:: *note view-algorithms:: *note view-syntax::

*note alter-table:: *note analyze-table:: *note
innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note innodb-analyze-table-complexity::
*note explain-output:: *note explain:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning::
*note general-thread-states:: *note index-statistics:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note known-issues:: *note
partitioning-maintenance:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
myisam-table-maintenance:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note glossary:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note
optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note using-explain:: *note
select-optimization:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note partitioning-limitations:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note show-index::
*note implicit-commit:: *note statistics-table:: *note slow-query-log::

[index top]

*note innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note begin-end:: *note
innodb-error-handling:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
replication-features-transactions:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note server-system-variables::
*note implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging::

*note begin-end:: *note case:: *note sql-compound-statements:: *note
create-trigger:: *note close:: *note fetch:: *note declare-handler::
*note declare:: *note stored-programs-defining:: *note events-overview::
*note leave:: *note declare-local-variable:: *note
local-variable-scope:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
commit:: *note statement-labels:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
trigger-syntax::

*note binlog:: *note mysqlbinlog-row-events:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
privileges-provided::

[index top]

*note cache-index:: *note index-preloading:: *note load-index:: *note
multiple-key-caches:: *note partitioning-limitations:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
c-api-prepared-call-statements:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-problems:: *note call:: *note
create-procedure:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-insert-id::
*note mysql-more-results:: *note mysql-next-result:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-set-server-option:: *note
mysql-stmt-next-result:: *note sql-prepared-statements:: *note
stored-objects-security:: *note stored-objects:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note stored-routines-syntax:: *note
trigger-syntax::

*note resignal::

*note partitioning-limitations-locking::

*note case:: *note control-flow-functions:: *note
flow-control-statements::

*note assigning-passwords:: *note
replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note change-master-to:: *note
replication-administration-status:: *note replication-howto-mysqldump::
*note encrypted-connection-protocols-ciphers:: *note grant:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-failover:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note privileges-provided::
*note replication-features-shutdowns:: *note replication-configuration::
*note slave-connection-thread-states:: *note slave-io-thread-states::
*note replication-options-slave:: *note reset-slave:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note replication-howto-slaveinit:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections:: *note
replication-howto-existingdata:: *note replication-howto-newservers::
*note show-slave-status:: *note slave-logs-status:: *note
replication-solutions-switch:: *note replication-rbr-usage:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note alter-table-partition-operations:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note check-table:: *note
corrupted-myisam-tables:: *note create-procedure:: *note create-view::
*note external-locking:: *note myisam-repair:: *note bug-reports:: *note
innochecksum:: *note innodb-recovery:: *note innodb-troubleshooting::
*note partitioning-maintenance:: *note myisam-table-maintenance:: *note
myisamchk:: *note faqs-views:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
gone-away:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note
mysql-use-result:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note myisam-table-close:: *note
rebuilding-tables:: *note se-csv-repair:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note cursor-restrictions:: *note
stored-program-restrictions:: *note view-restrictions:: *note
log-destinations:: *note server-options:: *note
myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
archive-storage-engine:: *note merge-storage-engine:: *note
slow-query-log::

*note check-table::

*note repair-table::

*note check-table::

*note checksum-table:: *note create-table:: *note
replication-features-checksum-table::

*note innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note
optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note create-procedure:: *note
mysql-acid:: *note innodb-error-handling:: *note innodb-parameters::
*note innodb-locks-set:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note replication-howto-masterstatus::
*note replication-features-transactions:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note savepoint:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note commit::
*note implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
binary-log:: *note sql-transactional-statements:: *note trigger-syntax::

*note backup-types:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
charset-applications:: *note mysqldump-copying-to-other-server:: *note
create-database:: *note charset-database:: *note mysqldump-sql-format::
*note replication-rules-db-options:: *note identifier-case-sensitivity::
*note mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-create-db:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
reloading-sql-format-dumps:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
charset-server:: *note server-error-reference:: *note
show-create-database:: *note implicit-commit::

*note replication-rules::

*note replication-features-create-if-not-exists::

*note alter-event:: *note create-event:: *note events-metadata:: *note
events-syntax:: *note expressions:: *note information-functions:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note replication-features-current-user:: *note
replication-features-invoked:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
show-create-event:: *note show-events:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
stored-objects:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
events-privileges:: *note events-table::

*note replication-features-create-if-not-exists::

*note adding-udf:: *note adding-functions:: *note alter-function:: *note
contributors:: *note create-function:: *note create-function-udf:: *note
create-procedure:: *note drop-function-udf:: *note function-resolution::
*note information-functions:: *note udf-loading:: *note mysqldump::
*note obtaining-udf-information:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note replication-features-invoked::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
stored-objects:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
stored-routines-syntax:: *note upgrade-troubleshooting::

*note column-indexes:: *note innodb-create-index-concurrency:: *note
create-index:: *note create-table:: *note creating-spatial-indexes::
*note innodb-compression-usage:: *note innodb-create-index-examples::
*note fulltext-search:: *note innodb-compression-internals:: *note
innodb-create-index-recovery:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
glossary:: *note mysql-cluster-online-operations:: *note
optimizing-memory-tables:: *note innodb-create-index-overview:: *note
server-options:: *note server-error-reference:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-index:: *note implicit-commit::
*note statistics-table:: *note slow-query-log:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-unsupported::

*note alter-logfile-group:: *note create-logfile-group:: *note
create-tablespace:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note files-table:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-resources::

*note create-view:: *note view-restrictions::

*note alter-procedure:: *note call:: *note create-procedure:: *note
information-functions:: *note mysqldump:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note replication-features-invoked::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
stored-objects:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
stored-routines-syntax::

*note create-database:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-backups::

*note alter-server:: *note federated-create-server:: *note
federated-usagenotes:: *note flush:: *note memory-use:: *note
federated-create:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-create-alter-drop-server:: *note implicit-commit::

*note alter-table-examples:: *note alter-table-partition-operations::
*note alter-table:: *note storage-engines:: *note
innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note backup-types:: *note
innodb-best-practices:: *note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note charset-column:: *note
column-indexes:: *note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note
create-event:: *note create-index:: *note create-server:: *note
create-table-like:: *note create-table-select:: *note create-table::
*note create-table-statement-retention:: *note create-temporary-table::
*note federated-create-connection:: *note creating-tables:: *note
using-innodb-tables:: *note creating-spatial-columns:: *note
creating-spatial-indexes:: *note backup-methods:: *note
charset-database:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note
mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note innodb-compression-usage:: *note
innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
constraint-foreign-key:: *note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note
fulltext-search:: *note getting-information:: *note partitioning-hash::
*note help:: *note innodb-compression-internals:: *note
partitioning-handling-nulls:: *note memory-use:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note information-functions:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-configuration:: *note
innodb-and-mysql-replication:: *note innodb-row-format:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-troubleshooting:: *note
internal-temporary-tables:: *note innodb-introduction:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
partitioning-key:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-database-objects::
*note table-size-limit:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions::
*note partitioning-list:: *note load-xml:: *note loading-tables:: *note
lock-tables:: *note binary-log-mysql-database:: *note
partitioning-management-range-list:: *note myisam-table-formats:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note glossary:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note mysql-cluster-config-example::
*note mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-operations:: *note data-size:: *note
optimizing-innodb-ddl-operations:: *note partitioning-overview:: *note
innodb-compression-background:: *note partitioning-management:: *note
partitioning-limitations-partitioning-keys-unique-keys:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-storage-engines:: *note partitioning-types::
*note mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note privileges-provided::
*note partitioning-columns-range:: *note partitioning-range:: *note
reloading-delimited-text-dumps:: *note replace:: *note
replication-features-auto-increment:: *note
replication-features-charset:: *note replication-features-directory::
*note replication-features-functions:: *note
replication-features-create-select:: *note
replication-features-more-columns:: *note partitioning-limitations::
*note log-destinations:: *note server-options:: *note
server-error-reference:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note binary-log-setting:: *note
storage-engine-setting:: *note show-columns:: *note show-create-table::
*note show-engine:: *note show-index:: *note show-table-status:: *note
show-warnings:: *note silent-column-changes:: *note
innodb-compression-syntax-warnings:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
string-type-syntax:: *note partitioning-subpartitions:: *note
charset-table:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note enum:: *note
partitions-table:: *note statistics-table:: *note tables-table:: *note
memory-storage-engine:: *note myisam-storage-engine:: *note
scalar-subqueries:: *note innodb-troubleshooting-datadict:: *note
truncate-table:: *note uninstall-plugin:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-unsupported:: *note example-auto-increment::
*note multiple-tables:: *note using-mysqldump:: *note
replication-solutions-diffengines:: *note symbolic-links-to-tables::
*note mysql-nutshell:: *note windows-restrictions::

*note create-table-like:: *note lock-tables:: *note
replication-features-auto-increment:: *note merge-storage-engine::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note cast-functions:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note innodb-consistent-read:: *note
create-table-select:: *note known-issues:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note replication-compatibility:: *note
replication-features-create-select:: *note ansi-diff-select-into-table::
*note implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging::

*note innodb-locks-set:: *note partitioning-management-range-list::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note create-table-select:: *note
replication-features-create-if-not-exists::

*note replication-features-create-if-not-exists::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note create-table-select:: *note
replication-features-create-if-not-exists::

*note glossary::

*note select-optimization::

*note alter-tablespace:: *note create-table:: *note create-tablespace::
*note mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition:: *note drop-tablespace:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note glossary:: *note
mysqldump:: *note mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note files-table::

*note grant:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
point-in-time-recovery:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note temporary-table-problems::

*note create-trigger:: *note information-functions:: *note
faqs-triggers:: *note mysqldump:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note replication-features-invoked::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note show-create-trigger:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note stored-objects:: *note stored-programs-logging::
*note subquery-optimization:: *note trigger-syntax::

*note glossary::

*note access-control:: *note user-names:: *note creating-accounts::
*note assigning-passwords:: *note ipv6-local-connections:: *note
create-user:: *note replication-howto-repuser:: *note
encryption-functions:: *note password-security-user:: *note flush::
*note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note memory-use:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-proxy-users:: *note ipv6-support:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note password-hashing:: *note
password-logging:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
mysql-install-db-problems:: *note proxy-users:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note account-names:: *note implicit-commit::
*note problems-connecting:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication::

*note alter-view:: *note create-view:: *note general-thread-states::
*note identifier-length:: *note information-functions:: *note
lock-tables:: *note partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note replication-features-current-user:: *note
view-restrictions:: *note show-create-view:: *note implicit-commit::
*note stored-objects:: *note views-table:: *note view-updatability::
*note view-algorithms:: *note view-syntax::

[index top]

*note deallocate-prepare:: *note prepare:: *note
sql-prepared-statements:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
server-status-variables::

*note create-procedure:: *note declare:: *note signal:: *note
stored-program-variables::

*note condition-handling:: *note declare-condition:: *note
declare-handler:: *note signal::

*note condition-handling:: *note declare-condition:: *note
declare-handler:: *note signal::

*note access-control:: *note creating-accounts:: *note
replication-sbr-rbr:: *note alter-table-partition-operations:: *note
replication-options-binary-log:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
innodb-change-buffer:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
innodb-consistent-read:: *note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note
create-procedure:: *note create-trigger:: *note create-view:: *note
delete:: *note deleting-from-related-tables:: *note
federated-usagenotes:: *note forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note functions:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note information-functions:: *note
innodb-and-mysql-replication:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
internal-locking:: *note information-schema-introduction:: *note join::
*note keywords:: *note kill:: *note known-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-limits:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note partitioning-list:: *note
innodb-locks-set:: *note binary-log-mysql-database:: *note
partitioning-management-range-list:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips:: *note extensions-to-ansi::
*note glossary:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-num-rows::
*note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note mysql-stmt-field-count:: *note
mysql-stmt-num-rows:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-delete-all:: *note data-change-optimization::
*note select-optimization:: *note partitioning-pruning:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
innodb-purge-configuration:: *note query-cache-thread-states:: *note
partitioning-range:: *note innodb-truncate-table-reclaim-space:: *note
replication-features-limit:: *note replication-features-memory:: *note
replication-features-optimizer:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
rewriting-subqueries:: *note selecting-all:: *note log-destinations::
*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
dba-dtrace-ref-statement:: *note subqueries:: *note subquery-errors::
*note table-locking:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note binary-log::
*note blackhole-storage-engine:: *note views-table:: *note features::
*note memory-storage-engine:: *note merge-storage-engine:: *note
innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note trigger-syntax:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note truncate-table:: *note innodb-undo-logs::
*note view-updatability:: *note replication-rbr-usage:: *note
query-results:: *note privilege-changes:: *note where-optimization::
*note null-mysql-store-result:: *note writing-audit-plugins::

*note innodb-locks-set::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note dba-dtrace-ref-statement::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
create-table-statement-retention:: *note creating-tables:: *note
describe:: *note explain:: *note extended-show:: *note
getting-information:: *note internal-temporary-tables:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
mysql-use-result:: *note show-columns:: *note silent-column-changes::
*note example-foreign-keys:: *note charset-metadata::

*note alter-event:: *note create-event:: *note do:: *note
locking-functions:: *note binary-log-mysql-database:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note subqueries:: *note events-table::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note drop-database:: *note
mysqldump-sql-format:: *note replication-rules-db-options:: *note
query-cache-operation:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-drop-db:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysqldump:: *note point-in-time-recovery:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
windows-restrictions::

*note replication-features-drop-if-exists::

*note events-syntax:: *note replication-features-invoked:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
events-privileges::

*note adding-udf:: *note adding-functions:: *note alter-function:: *note
contributors:: *note create-function-udf:: *note drop-function:: *note
drop-function-udf:: *note drop-procedure:: *note function-resolution::
*note udf-loading:: *note replication-features-invoked:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
stored-routines-syntax:: *note upgrade-troubleshooting::

*note alter-table:: *note creating-spatial-indexes:: *note drop-index::
*note innodb-create-index-examples:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
glossary:: *note mysql-cluster-online-operations:: *note
innodb-create-index-overview:: *note server-options:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note slow-query-log::

*note drop-logfile-group:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster::

*note alter-procedure:: *note replication-features-invoked:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
stored-routines-syntax::

*note drop-database:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note flush:: *note memory-use:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-create-alter-drop-server:: *note implicit-commit::

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-remarks:: *note alter-table:: *note
audit-log-file-formats:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note innodb-consistent-read:: *note
create-trigger:: *note drop-table:: *note federated-usagenotes:: *note
innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
information-functions:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-limits:: *note lock-tables:: *note
merge-table-problems:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note glossary:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-drop-index:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-drop-table:: *note
optimizing-innodb-ddl-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-pitr:: *note view-restrictions:: *note
log-destinations:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note binary-log-setting:: *note
show-slave-status:: *note signal:: *note start-slave:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note ddl-log:: *note memory-storage-engine:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note innodb-troubleshooting-datadict:: *note
truncate-table:: *note plugin-types:: *note uninstall-plugin::

*note replication-features-drop-if-exists::

*note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution::

*note drop-tablespace:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster::

*note replication-rbr-usage::

*note drop-trigger:: *note faqs-triggers:: *note mysqldump:: *note
replication-features-invoked:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
trigger-syntax::

*note user-names:: *note creating-accounts:: *note drop-user:: *note
flush:: *note grant:: *note memory-use:: *note information-functions::
*note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note replication-features-current-user:: *note
revoke:: *note implicit-commit:: *note events-privileges::

*note writing-authentication-plugins-setup::

*note drop-view:: *note lock-tables:: *note view-restrictions:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note view-syntax::

*note replication-features-drop-if-exists::

[index top]

*note c-api-prepared-call-statements:: *note call:: *note execute::
*note prepare:: *note sql-prepared-statements:: *note
stored-program-restrictions:: *note view-restrictions:: *note
server-status-variables::

*note alter-table:: *note table-scan-avoidance:: *note
c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
column-indexes:: *note create-procedure:: *note debugging-server:: *note
derived-tables:: *note describe:: *note distinct-optimization:: *note
condition-pushdown-optimization:: *note explain-output:: *note explain::
*note explain-extended:: *note group-by-optimization:: *note
index-hints:: *note index-merge-optimization:: *note
internal-temporary-tables:: *note information-schema-introduction::
*note is-null-optimization:: *note performance-schema:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
mysql-use-result:: *note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note partitioning-info:: *note
optimizer-issues:: *note information-schema-optimization:: *note
using-explain:: *note select-optimization:: *note
optimizing-subqueries:: *note order-by-optimization:: *note
partitioning-pruning:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
range-optimization:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note select::
*note server-error-reference:: *note show-warnings:: *note
no-matching-rows:: *note subquery-optimization:: *note features:: *note
execution-plan-information:: *note using-log-files:: *note
using-spatial-indexes:: *note verifying-index-usage:: *note
mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note partitioning-info::

*note explain-output:: *note explain:: *note using-explain:: *note
show-warnings:: *note subquery-optimization::

*note explain:: *note partitioning-info:: *note using-explain::

*note partitioning-info::

*note partitioning-range::

*note derived-tables:: *note explain-output:: *note
innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note bug-reports:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note partitioning-info::

*note using-explain::

[index top]

*note declare-cursor:: *note fetch:: *note stored-program-restrictions::

*note stored-program-variables::

*note backup-policy:: *note flush:: *note grant:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysqldump:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note reset:: *note
stored-program-restrictions:: *note default-privileges:: *note
unix-signal-response::

*note flush:: *note log-file-maintenance::

*note encryption-functions:: *note flush::

*note flush::

*note error-log-rotation:: *note flush::

*note flush::

*note host-cache:: *note flush:: *note blocked-host:: *note
mysql-refresh:: *note server-system-variables::

*note backup-strategy-summary:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series::
*note backup-methods:: *note error-log-rotation:: *note backup-policy::
*note flush:: *note server-logs:: *note mysql-refresh:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note log-destinations:: *note
log-file-maintenance:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
slave-logs-relaylog::

*note flush:: *note replication-features-flush::

*note mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution:: *note flush:: *note
grant-tables:: *note memory-use:: *note mysql-refresh:: *note
mysql-reload:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-security-procedures:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note server-options:: *note
user-resources:: *note problems-connecting:: *note manual-conventions::
*note privilege-changes::

*note flush:: *note query-cache-status-and-maintenance::

*note flush::

*note flush:: *note replication-features-flush::

*note flush::

*note flush:: *note mysql-refresh:: *note server-status-variables::

*note flush::

*note statement-repreparation:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note flush:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note handler:: *note table-cache:: *note
memory-use:: *note insert-delayed:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
myisamchk:: *note mysql-refresh:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
replication-howto-masterstatus:: *note myisam-table-close:: *note
query-cache-status-and-maintenance:: *note replication-features-flush::
*note log-destinations:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note glossary::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note mysqlhotcopy::

*note flush::

*note flush::

*note handler::

*note replication-howto-mysqldump:: *note backup-methods:: *note
backup-policy:: *note flush:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
lock-tables:: *note glossary:: *note mysqldump:: *note
replication-howto-masterstatus:: *note replication-features-flush::
*note xa-restrictions:: *note log-destinations:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note commit:: *note implicit-commit::

*note flush:: *note user-resources::

[index top]

*note access-control:: *note request-access:: *note user-names:: *note
creating-accounts:: *note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note
assigning-passwords:: *note connection-options:: *note
using-encrypted-connections:: *note ipv6-local-connections:: *note
create-user:: *note replication-howto-repuser:: *note
encryption-functions:: *note password-security-user:: *note flush::
*note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note memory-use:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-proxy-users:: *note
information-functions:: *note ipv6-support:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
faqs-replication:: *note glossary:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
permission-optimization:: *note pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note
password-hashing:: *note password-logging:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-preparation:: *note privileges-provided::
*note mysql-install-db-problems:: *note proxy-users:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note replication-features-current-user::
*note replication-features-mysqldb:: *note revoke:: *note
security-guidelines:: *note server-options:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note user-resources:: *note show-grants::
*note account-names:: *note implicit-commit:: *note events-privileges::
*note problems-connecting:: *note encrypted-connections:: *note
mysql-cluster-what-is-new:: *note privilege-changes:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication::

*note grant::

*note events-privileges::

*note assigning-passwords:: *note grant:: *note user-resources::

[index top]

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note federated-usagenotes:: *note flush::
*note faqs-stored-procs:: *note compatibility:: *note
mysql-change-user:: *note partitioning-limitations:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note show-open-tables::

*note show-open-tables::

*note stored-program-restrictions::

*note handler:: *note truncate-table::

*note help:: *note lock-tables:: *note server-side-help-support::

[index top]

*note control-flow-functions:: *note declare-handler:: *note
flow-control-statements:: *note if::

*note access-control:: *note request-access:: *note creating-accounts::
*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note statement-repreparation::
*note backup-types:: *note optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
innodb-change-buffer:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
charset-conversion:: *note concurrent-inserts:: *note
constraint-invalid-data:: *note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note
create-index:: *note create-procedure:: *note create-table-select::
*note create-temporary-table:: *note create-trigger:: *note
create-view:: *note federated-create-connection:: *note
data-type-defaults:: *note date-and-time-type-syntax:: *note
declare-handler:: *note delete:: *note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe::
*note backup-policy:: *note precision-math-expressions:: *note
federated-usagenotes:: *note forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note general-thread-states:: *note grant::
*note grant-tables:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
getting-unique-id:: *note information-functions:: *note innodb-locking::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note
insert-select:: *note insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note
internal-locking:: *note information-schema-introduction:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note partitioning-list:: *note
load-data:: *note loading-tables:: *note lock-tables:: *note
innodb-locks-set:: *note binary-log-mysql-database:: *note
partitioning-management-range-list:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
metadata-locking:: *note miscellaneous-functions:: *note faqs-general::
*note faqs-cjk:: *note faqs-triggers:: *note faqs-views:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note glossary::
*note gone-away:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-insert-id::
*note mysql-num-rows:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note
mysql-stmt-field-count:: *note mysql-stmt-insert-id:: *note
mysql-stmt-num-rows:: *note mysql-stmt-prepare:: *note
mysql-store-result:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-example-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note optimize-table::
*note data-change-optimization:: *note insert-optimization:: *note
optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note out-of-range-and-overflow:: *note
partitioning-pruning:: *note partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note
mysql-cluster-rolling-restart:: *note populating-spatial-columns:: *note
constraint-primary-key:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
innodb-purge-configuration:: *note query-cache-thread-states:: *note
partitioning-range:: *note replace:: *note
replication-features-auto-increment:: *note
replication-features-sql-mode:: *note replication-features-functions::
*note replication-features-variables:: *note
replication-options-master:: *note replication-rules-examples:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
dba-dtrace-ref-rowlevel:: *note log-destinations:: *note
server-error-reference:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-procedure-code:: *note
show-warnings:: *note replication-features-slaveerrors:: *note
dba-dtrace-ref-statement:: *note stored-programs-logging:: *note
subqueries:: *note table-locking:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note
charset-binary-collations:: *note binary-log:: *note
blackhole-storage-engine:: *note views-table:: *note features:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note myisam-storage-engine:: *note query-cache::
*note server-shutdown:: *note trigger-syntax:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note innodb-undo-logs:: *note view-updatability::
*note innodb-information-schema-examples:: *note triggers:: *note
query-results:: *note privilege-changes:: *note
null-mysql-store-result::

*note dba-dtrace-ref-statement::

*note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note federated-usagenotes:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note
insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-issues::
*note innodb-locks-set:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
miscellaneous-functions:: *note glossary:: *note mysql-affected-rows::
*note mysql-insert-id:: *note partitioning-limitations-locking::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note concurrent-inserts:: *note
create-table-select:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note insert-select::
*note insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note internal-temporary-tables::
*note known-issues:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note mysql-insert-id::
*note mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note
partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note replication-features-limit::
*note server-system-variables:: *note dba-dtrace-ref-statement:: *note
binary-log::

*note insert-on-duplicate:: *note insert-select::

*note insert::

*note insert:: *note mysql-info::

*note alter-table:: *note optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note
delayed-insert-thread-states:: *note insert-delayed:: *note insert::
*note kill:: *note known-issues:: *note lock-tables:: *note
merge-table-problems:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note mysql-threads::
*note mysqldump:: *note optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note
partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note partitioning-limitations::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note server-status-variables::
*note server-system-variables:: *note table-locking:: *note
archive-storage-engine:: *note memory-storage-engine:: *note
view-updatability::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note constraint-invalid-data::
*note create-table-select:: *note constraint-enum:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note sql-mode::

*note insert-select::

*note request-access:: *note innodb-consistent-read:: *note
constraint-invalid-data:: *note create-event:: *note insert:: *note
replication-features-create-select:: *note ansi-diff-select-into-table::
*note memory-storage-engine:: *note query-results::

*note mysql-info::

*note replication-features-memory::

*note select-optimization::

*note audit-log-options-variables:: *note flush:: *note memory-use::
*note innodb-information-schema:: *note install-plugin:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note audit-log-installation:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note
obtaining-plugin-information:: *note pam-pluggable-authentication::
*note pluggable-storage:: *note plugin-api-components:: *note
plugin-data-structures:: *note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note server-options:: *note
server-plugin-descriptors:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-plugins:: *note socket-pluggable-authentication:: *note
test-pluggable-authentication:: *note plugins-table:: *note plugin-api::
*note uninstall-plugin:: *note windows-pluggable-authentication:: *note
writing-audit-plugins:: *note writing-daemon-plugins:: *note
writing-full-text-plugins:: *note writing-information-schema-plugins::
*note writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

*note declare-handler:: *note flow-control-statements:: *note iterate::
*note statement-labels::

[index top]

*note general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note kill:: *note
lock-tables:: *note gone-away:: *note mysql-kill:: *note mysql-zap::
*note privileges-provided:: *note show-processlist::

*note kill:: *note stop-slave:: *note server-shutdown::

*note kill:: *note miscellaneous-functions:: *note stop-slave:: *note
server-shutdown::

[index top]

*note declare-handler:: *note flow-control-statements:: *note leave::
*note loop:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note return:: *note
statement-labels::

*note audit-log-file-formats:: *note audit-log-restrictions:: *note
innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note backup-types:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note concurrent-inserts:: *note
create-trigger:: *note backup-methods:: *note charset-database:: *note
replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note
full-disk:: *note information-functions:: *note known-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note load-data:: *note
load-xml:: *note loading-tables:: *note binary-log-mysql-database::
*note security-against-attack:: *note myisam-start:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-info::
*note mysql-options:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlimport:: *note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables:: *note
null-values:: *note insert-optimization:: *note
out-of-range-and-overflow:: *note programs-overview:: *note
partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note mysql-cluster-rolling-restart::
*note privileges-provided:: *note problems-with-null:: *note
reloading-delimited-text-dumps:: *note replication-features-load-data::
*note replication-compatibility:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note slave-sql-thread-states:: *note partitioning-limitations:: *note
charset-restrictions:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
load-data-local:: *note select-into:: *note selecting-all:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note show-warnings::
*note implicit-commit:: *note subqueries:: *note enum:: *note
memory-storage-engine:: *note scalar-subqueries:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note user-variables:: *note triggers:: *note
query-results:: *note temporary-files:: *note windows-restrictions::

*note replace::

*note c-api-function-overview:: *note load-data:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note mysql-options:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note mysql-set-local-infile-default:: *note
mysql-set-local-infile-handler:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
load-data-local:: *note server-system-variables::

*note cache-index:: *note index-preloading:: *note load-index:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note load-index::

*note load-xml:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note load-xml::

*note concurrent-inserts:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
alter-table-problems::

*note innodb-best-practices:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note create-database:: *note
create-table-like:: *note create-trigger:: *note
innodb-deadlock-detection:: *note innodb-deadlocks:: *note flush:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note internal-locking:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-multiple-nodes:: *note lock-tables:: *note
innodb-locks-set:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note metadata-locking::
*note mysqldump:: *note mysqlhotcopy:: *note
partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
myisam-table-close:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
log-destinations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note commit:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note system-optimization:: *note table-locking::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note flush:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-locks-set::

*note innodb-locking:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
innodb-locks-set::

*note flow-control-statements:: *note iterate:: *note leave:: *note
loop:: *note statement-labels::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-basics:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-add-node-example:: *note debugging-server:: *note
delete:: *note dynamic-format:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note full-disk:: *note kill:: *note
known-issues:: *note innodb-create-index-limitations:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-limits:: *note partitioning-maintenance::
*note merge-table-problems:: *note myisam-table-maintenance:: *note
myisam-optimization:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysqlcheck:: *note mysql-cluster-disk-data-storage-requirements:: *note
mysql-cluster-online-operations:: *note optimize-table:: *note
optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note update-optimization:: *note
miscellaneous-optimization-tips:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note partitioning-limitations:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
static-format:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note server-shutdown::
*note slow-query-log:: *note symbolic-links-to-tables::

[index top]

*note statement-repreparation:: *note c-api-prepared-call-statements::
*note call:: *note deallocate-prepare:: *note execute:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note metadata-locking:: *note prepare::
*note sql-prepared-statements:: *note stored-program-restrictions::
*note view-restrictions:: *note server-status-variables::

*note backup-policy:: *note grant:: *note mysqldump:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note purge-binary-logs:: *note reset-master::
*note log-file-maintenance:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
binary-log::

[index top]

*note savepoint::

*note alter-table:: *note delete:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note metadata-locking:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysqldump:: *note rename-table:: *note
log-destinations:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
symbolic-links-to-tables::

*note grant:: *note information-functions:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
rename-user:: *note replication-features-current-user:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note events-privileges:: *note privilege-changes::

*note alter-table-partition-operations:: *note alter-table:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note corrupted-myisam-tables:: *note
backup-methods:: *note external-locking:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning::
*note general-thread-states:: *note ha-zfs-mysql-recovery:: *note
full-disk:: *note myisam-repair:: *note bug-reports:: *note kill:: *note
known-issues:: *note load-data:: *note partitioning-maintenance:: *note
merge-table-problems:: *note myisam-start:: *note
myisam-table-maintenance:: *note myisamchk-general-options:: *note
myisamchk:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note
repair-table-optimization:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
myisam-table-close:: *note alter-table-problems:: *note
rebuilding-tables:: *note repair-table:: *note se-csv-repair:: *note
replication-features-flush:: *note replication-features-repair-table::
*note partitioning-limitations:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note server-shutdown::
*note slow-query-log:: *note symbolic-links-to-tables::

*note declare-handler:: *note stored-programs-defining:: *note
flow-control-statements:: *note iterate:: *note leave:: *note repeat::
*note statement-labels::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note create-table-select:: *note
create-trigger:: *note data-type-defaults:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note
known-issues:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
extensions-to-ansi:: *note gone-away:: *note mysql-affected-rows:: *note
mysqldump:: *note partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note replace:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note subqueries:: *note
archive-storage-engine:: *note features::

*note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note known-issues::

*note flush:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note reset::

*note flush:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
mysql-refresh:: *note reset-master:: *note show-slave-status:: *note
replication-solutions-switch:: *note binary-log::

*note query-cache-thread-states::

*note change-master-to:: *note flush:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note mysql-refresh:: *note
reset-master:: *note reset-slave:: *note show-slave-status::

*note change-master-to::

*note condition-handling:: *note conditions-and-parameters:: *note
declare-condition:: *note declare-handler:: *note resignal:: *note
condition-handling-restrictions:: *note stored-program-restrictions::
*note signal:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note create-procedure:: *note flow-control-statements:: *note loop::
*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note return:: *note signal::

*note access-control:: *note request-access:: *note user-names:: *note
creating-accounts:: *note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note flush:: *note
grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note memory-use:: *note
information-functions:: *note ipv6-support:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note faqs-replication:: *note
differences-from-ansi:: *note glossary:: *note
mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note privileges-provided::
*note mysql-install-db-problems:: *note proxy-users:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note replication-features-mysqldb::
*note revoke:: *note security-guidelines:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
events-privileges:: *note privilege-changes::

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided::

*note innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note innodb-deadlock-detection:: *note
information-functions:: *note mysql-acid:: *note innodb-error-handling::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note lock-tables:: *note mysql-change-user::
*note replication-features-transactions:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note nontransactional-tables:: *note
savepoint:: *note server-system-variables:: *note commit:: *note
cannot-roll-back:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note binary-log:: *note
sql-transactional-statements:: *note trigger-syntax::

*note savepoint::

*note trigger-syntax::

[index top]

*note savepoint::

*note access-control:: *note group-by-functions:: *note alter-table::
*note alter-view:: *note assignment-operators:: *note
audit-log-file-formats:: *note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note statement-repreparation::
*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note c-api-data-structures::
*note c-api-function-overview:: *note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
c-api-prepared-call-statements:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note comparison-operators:: *note
index-btree-hash:: *note concurrent-inserts:: *note charset-connection::
*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note
create-event:: *note create-index:: *note create-procedure:: *note
create-table-select:: *note create-table:: *note
create-temporary-table:: *note create-view:: *note
federated-create-connection:: *note creating-database:: *note
declare-cursor:: *note fetch:: *note innodb-deadlock-detection:: *note
delete:: *note derived-tables:: *note creating-many-tables:: *note do::
*note entering-queries:: *note events-configuration:: *note
charset-collation-effect:: *note explain-output:: *note explain:: *note
explain-extended:: *note federated-usagenotes:: *note
forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note function-optimization:: *note
functions:: *note general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note handler::
*note partitioning-handling-nulls:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note bug-reports:: *note index-hints::
*note information-functions:: *note data-directory-initialization::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note
insert-select:: *note insert-delayed:: *note insert:: *note
internal-locking:: *note internal-temporary-tables:: *note
information-schema-introduction:: *note join:: *note keywords:: *note
kill:: *note known-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note load-xml:: *note
local-variable-scope:: *note lock-tables:: *note innodb-locking-reads::
*note innodb-locks-set:: *note binary-log-mysql-database:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note partitioning-management-range-list::
*note merge-table-problems:: *note multiple-column-indexes:: *note
myisam-optimization:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note faqs-replication:: *note
faqs-stored-procs:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips::
*note extensions-to-ansi:: *note glossary:: *note performance-schema::
*note mysql-affected-rows:: *note mysql-fetch-field:: *note
mysql-field-count:: *note mysql-num-fields:: *note mysql-num-rows::
*note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note mysql-stmt-fetch:: *note
mysql-stmt-num-rows:: *note mysql-stmt-store-result:: *note
mysql-store-result:: *note mysql-use-result:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysqlslap:: *note fulltext-natural-language:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-install-example-data:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-system-variables::
*note mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note partitioning-info:: *note
optimization-indexes:: *note optimizer-issues:: *note
optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note using-explain:: *note
select-optimization:: *note update-optimization:: *note
myisamchk-other-options:: *note partitioning-pruning:: *note
partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note innodb-next-key-locking:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note using-date:: *note problems-with-float::
*note innodb-purge-configuration:: *note query-cache-in-select:: *note
query-cache-status-and-maintenance:: *note query-cache-thread-states::
*note mysql-cluster-sql-statements:: *note partitioning-columns-range::
*note range-optimization:: *note se-csv-repair:: *note replace:: *note
replication-implementation:: *note replication-options-master:: *note
replication-features-create-if-not-exists:: *note
replication-features-invoked:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
retrieving-data:: *note searching-on-two-keys:: *note
default-privileges:: *note select-into:: *note select:: *note
selecting-all:: *note selecting-rows:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-variable:: *note
show-binlog-events:: *note show-create-procedure:: *note
show-create-view:: *note show-errors:: *note show-procedure-code:: *note
show-processlist:: *note show-relaylog-events:: *note show:: *note
show-variables:: *note show-warnings:: *note no-matching-rows:: *note
commit:: *note dba-dtrace-ref-statement:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note stored-routines-syntax:: *note
string-literals:: *note subqueries:: *note
exists-and-not-exists-subqueries:: *note subquery-errors:: *note
subquery-optimization:: *note table-locking:: *note
archive-storage-engine:: *note binary-log:: *note enum:: *note
columns-table:: *note events-table:: *note variables-table:: *note
processlist-table:: *note views-table:: *note features:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note query-cache:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-nodes:: *note scalar-subqueries:: *note
innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note trigger-syntax:: *note
type-conversion:: *note manual-conventions:: *note union:: *note
update:: *note user-variables:: *note
innodb-information-schema-examples:: *note command-line-options:: *note
procedure-analyse:: *note using-log-files:: *note
using-spatial-indexes:: *note charset-metadata:: *note view-syntax::
*note where-optimization:: *note temporary-files:: *note
writing-audit-plugins::

*note blob::

*note backup-methods::

*note innodb-deadlocks:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note
innodb-locking:: *note innodb-locking-reads:: *note innodb-locks-set::

*note innodb-locks-set::

*note create-event:: *note local-variable-scope:: *note
replication-features-functions:: *note select-into:: *note
ansi-diff-select-into-table:: *note select::

*note data-directory-initialization:: *note security-against-attack::
*note server-system-variables::

*note backup-types:: *note mysqldump-delimited-text:: *note
forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note load-data:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note null-values:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note select-into:: *note
ansi-diff-select-into-table:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note problems-connecting:: *note
manual-conventions:: *note windows-restrictions::

*note select-into::

*note stored-program-restrictions:: *note stored-program-variables::

*note innodb-locking:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions::
*note innodb-locking-reads:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note
innodb-transaction-isolation-levels::

*note general-thread-states:: *note subquery-restrictions::

*note assignment-operators:: *note replication-options-binary-log::
*note charset-connection:: *note stored-programs-defining:: *note
events-configuration:: *note func-op-summary-ref:: *note functions::
*note information-functions:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
mysql-tips:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note mysql-find-rows:: *note
non-typed-operators:: *note query-cache-configuration:: *note
replication-options-master:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
server-options:: *note sql-mode:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-statement:: *note set-variable:: *note show-variables:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note subqueries:: *note
system-variable-privileges:: *note slow-query-log:: *note
trigger-syntax:: *note user-variables:: *note command-line-options::
*note program-variables:: *note using-system-variables:: *note
stored-program-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading:: *note
sql-transactional-statements::

*note replication-semisync::

*note charset-connection:: *note mysql-real-escape-string:: *note
set-character-set:: *note set-statement:: *note charset-unicode::

*note charset-connection::

*note charset-connection::

*note innodb-change-buffer:: *note innodb-performance-read_ahead:: *note
innodb-configuring-io-capacity:: *note
innodb-performance-spin_lock_polling:: *note
innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: *note grant:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion:: *note
multiple-key-caches:: *note replication-semisync-installation::

*note set-global-sql-slave-skip-counter::

*note c-api-auto-reconnect:: *note charset-literal:: *note
charset-applications:: *note charset-connection:: *note charset-errors::
*note load-data:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note mysql-commands:: *note
mysql-real-escape-string:: *note mysql-set-character-set:: *note
mysqldump:: *note set-names:: *note set-statement:: *note
type-conversion:: *note charset-unicode:: *note charset-metadata::

*note charset-connection::

*note charset-connection::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note mysqldump::

*note assigning-passwords:: *note old-client:: *note create-user:: *note
password-security-user:: *note information-functions:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note password-hashing:: *note
password-logging:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
replication-features-current-user:: *note
resetting-permissions-generic:: *note default-privileges:: *note
replication-features-set-password:: *note set-password:: *note
set-statement:: *note account-names:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
problems-connecting:: *note privilege-changes::

*note assigning-passwords::

*note system-variable-privileges::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note binary-log::

*note faqs-sql-modes::

*note thread-information::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note commit::
*note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels::

*note set-statement:: *note commit::

*note set-statement::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note c-api-function-overview:: *note
create-event:: *note create-procedure:: *note database-use:: *note
declare-cursor:: *note extended-show:: *note
information-schema-introduction:: *note identifier-mapping:: *note
faqs-replication:: *note extensions-to-ansi:: *note
mysql-stmt-store-result:: *note mysql-store-result:: *note
mysql-use-result:: *note mysqlshow:: *note
performance-schema-quick-start:: *note stored-program-restrictions::
*note show-columns:: *note show:: *note show-tables:: *note
replication-statements-master:: *note binary-log:: *note features::
*note charset-metadata::

*note show-authors::

*note privileges-provided:: *note purge-binary-logs:: *note
show-binary-logs:: *note replication-statements-master::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-schema:: *note cursor-restrictions::
*note show-binlog-events:: *note replication-statements-master:: *note
start-slave::

*note alter-database:: *note charset-introducer:: *note charset-mysql::
*note charset-literal:: *note charset-column:: *note charset-database::
*note extended-show:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note show-character-set:: *note
charset-charsets:: *note charset-table:: *note character-sets-table::

*note alter-database:: *note c-api-data-structures:: *note
charset-configuration:: *note charset-mysql:: *note
adding-collation-choosing-id:: *note source-configuration-options::
*note show-collation:: *note
collation-character-set-applicability-table:: *note collations-table::

*note explain:: *note extended-show:: *note internal-temporary-tables::
*note performance-schema-quick-start:: *note show-columns:: *note
columns-table:: *note innodb-buffer-page-table:: *note
innodb-buffer-page-lru-table:: *note innodb-buffer-pool-stats-table::
*note innodb-cmp-table:: *note innodb-cmpmem-table:: *note
innodb-lock-waits-table:: *note innodb-locks-table:: *note
innodb-trx-table::

*note enum::

*note show-contributors::

*note show-errors:: *note show-warnings::

*note server-system-variables:: *note show-create-database::

*note events-metadata:: *note show-events:: *note events-privileges::

*note create-procedure:: *note bug-reports:: *note faqs-stored-procs::
*note show-create-procedure:: *note stored-routines-metadata::

*note create-procedure:: *note bug-reports:: *note faqs-stored-procs::
*note show-create-function:: *note stored-routines-metadata::

*note show-create-database::

*note alter-table-partition-operations:: *note alter-table:: *note
create-table:: *note create-table-statement-retention:: *note
data-type-defaults:: *note explain:: *note create-table-foreign-keys::
*note getting-information:: *note federated-create:: *note
myisam-repair:: *note partitioning-key:: *note
partitioning-management-range-list:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note partitioning-info:: *note
performance-schema-quick-start:: *note rebuilding-tables:: *note
sql-mode:: *note server-system-variables:: *note show-columns:: *note
show-create-table:: *note silent-column-changes:: *note
example-foreign-keys::

*note show-create-trigger:: *note trigger-metadata::

*note grant:: *note privileges-provided:: *note view-restrictions::
*note show-create-view:: *note views-table:: *note view-metadata::

*note create-database:: *note database-use:: *note extended-show:: *note
getting-information:: *note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note information-schema-introduction::
*note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note performance-schema-build-configuration::
*note privileges-provided:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-databases:: *note schemata-table::

*note privileges-provided:: *note show-engine::

*note show-engine:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-adaptive-hash:: *note innodb-buffer-pool:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note innodb-deadlocks:: *note
innodb-enabling-monitors:: *note error-interfaces:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note
innodb-information-schema-buffer-pool-tables:: *note innodb-locking::
*note innodb-standard-monitor:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
glossary:: *note optimizing-innodb-diskio:: *note
innodb-purge-configuration:: *note show-engine:: *note
innodb-buffer-pool-stats-table:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-cluster-install-windows-initial-start:: *note
mysql-cluster-management:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-schema::
*note mysql-cluster-sql-statements:: *note show-engine::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-sql-statements::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring:: *note show-engine::

*note storage-engines:: *note innodb-check-availability:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note
performance-schema-build-configuration:: *note
performance-schema-quick-start:: *note mysql-cluster-sql-statements::
*note windows-select-server:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-engines:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note
blackhole-storage-engine:: *note engines-table:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note error-interfaces:: *note resignal:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-errors:: *note show-warnings::
*note signal::

*note events-metadata:: *note replication-features-invoked:: *note
show-events:: *note events-privileges:: *note events-table::

*note create-table:: *note column-privileges-table::

*note thread-information:: *note mysqladmin::

*note mysqlshow::

*note show-procedure-code::

*note show-procedure-status:: *note stored-routines-metadata::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::
*note status-table::

*note variables-table::

*note access-control:: *note creating-accounts:: *note grant:: *note
grant-tables:: *note privileges-provided:: *note revoke:: *note
security-guidelines:: *note show-grants:: *note show-privileges::

*note analyze-table:: *note innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note
explain-output:: *note explain:: *note index-hints:: *note
index-statistics:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat:: *note myisamchk-other-options::
*note show-columns:: *note show-index:: *note statistics-table:: *note
table-constraints-table::

*note show-binary-logs::

*note replication-howto-mysqldump:: *note replication-bugs:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-backups:: *note
replication-howto-masterstatus:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-statements-master:: *note replication-problems::

*note show-open-tables::

*note innodb-information-schema:: *note install-plugin:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note audit-log-installation:: *note
faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note obtaining-plugin-information:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note partitioning:: *note
plugin-api-characteristics:: *note plugin-api-components:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note server-plugin-descriptors::
*note server-system-variables:: *note show-plugins:: *note
socket-pluggable-authentication:: *note test-pluggable-authentication::
*note ndb-transid-mysql-connection-map-table:: *note plugins-table::
*note thread-pool-installation:: *note mysql-nutshell:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication:: *note writing-audit-plugins:: *note
writing-daemon-plugins:: *note writing-full-text-plugins:: *note
writing-information-schema-plugins:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

*note show-privileges::

*note show-function-code::

*note show-function-status:: *note stored-routines-metadata::

*note change-master-to:: *note replication-administration-status:: *note
dba-dtrace-ref-command:: *note dba-dtrace-ref-connection:: *note
events-configuration:: *note general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note
client-connections:: *note information-functions:: *note
innodb-error-handling:: *note kill:: *note security-against-attack::
*note faqs-replication:: *note mysql-cluster-mysqld:: *note
mysql-list-processes:: *note mysqladmin:: *note privileges-provided::
*note dba-dtrace-ref-queryexec:: *note dba-dtrace-ref-query:: *note
replication-implementation-details:: *note show-processlist:: *note
show-profile:: *note show-slave-status:: *note commit:: *note
replication-solutions-switch:: *note
ndb-transid-mysql-connection-map-table:: *note processlist-table:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-transactions:: *note threads-table:: *note
too-many-connections:: *note replication-problems::

*note thread-information:: *note general-thread-states:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-profile:: *note show-profiles:: *note profiling-table::

*note source-configuration-options:: *note server-system-variables::
*note show-profile:: *note show-profiles:: *note profiling-table::

*note show-binlog-events:: *note show-relaylog-events:: *note
replication-statements-slave::

*note show-databases::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note status-table::

*note variables-table::

*note replication-administration-status:: *note
replication-options-master:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
replication-statements-master::

*note change-master-to:: *note replication-administration-status:: *note
error-interfaces:: *note replication-bugs:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-failover:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note faqs-replication:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note purge-binary-logs:: *note
replication-implementation-details:: *note slave-io-thread-states::
*note replication-options-slave:: *note
replication-solutions-encrypted-connections:: *note show-slave-status::
*note replication-features-slaveerrors:: *note slave-logs-status:: *note
replication-statements-slave:: *note start-slave:: *note
replication-problems::

*note replication-administration-status:: *note
mysql-cluster-api-definition:: *note insert-delayed:: *note
mysql-cluster-management:: *note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld::
*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication:: *note plugin-api-characteristics:: *note
query-cache-status-and-maintenance:: *note
mysql-cluster-sql-statements:: *note replication-features-temptables::
*note replication-implementation-details:: *note
replication-features-timeout:: *note stored-program-restrictions:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-plugin-descriptors::
*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-status:: *note writing-audit-plugins:: *note
writing-full-text-plugins:: *note writing-plugins::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring::

*note group-by-functions:: *note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note create-table:: *note
create-table-statement-retention:: *note using-innodb-tables:: *note
explain:: *note innodb-file-space:: *note
innodb-restrictions-limitations:: *note innodb-row-format:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note glossary:: *note partitioning-info:: *note
show-columns:: *note show-table-status:: *note archive-storage-engine::
*note tables-table::

*note creating-tables:: *note extended-show:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note innodb-information-schema:: *note
information-schema-introduction:: *note identifier-mapping:: *note
glossary:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note
server-options:: *note show-table-status:: *note show-tables:: *note
cannot-find-table:: *note temporary-table-problems:: *note
tables-table::

*note mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges::

*note faqs-triggers:: *note show-triggers:: *note triggers-table:: *note
trigger-metadata::

*note compiling-plugin-libraries:: *note events-configuration:: *note
faqs-cjk:: *note partitioning:: *note plugin-api-characteristics:: *note
mysql-cluster-sql-statements:: *note multiple-servers:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-options:: *note
server-plugin-descriptors:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-variable:: *note show-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-starting:: *note using-system-variables::
*note writing-plugins::

*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note alter-table:: *note
condition-handling:: *note drop-procedure:: *note drop-table:: *note
error-interfaces:: *note explain-output:: *note explain:: *note
explain-extended:: *note function-resolution:: *note load-data:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note using-explain:: *note constraint-primary-key::
*note precision-math-rounding:: *note server-error-reference:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-errors:: *note show-warnings::
*note signal:: *note subquery-optimization::

*note condition-handling:: *note declare-condition:: *note
declare-handler:: *note information-functions:: *note resignal:: *note
condition-handling-restrictions:: *note stored-program-restrictions::
*note signal:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note change-master-to:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-failover::
*note mysqldump:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore:: *note
replication-administration-pausing:: *note
replication-solutions-partitioning:: *note
replication-implementation-details:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note reset-slave:: *note replication-semisync-installation:: *note
show-slave-status:: *note replication-features-slaveerrors:: *note
start-slave:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-starting:: *note
stop-slave:: *note replication-solutions-switch:: *note
replication-problems:: *note mysql-cluster-replication-two-channels::

*note innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note begin-end:: *note
flush:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note innodb-error-handling::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note lock-tables:: *note
innodb-locking-reads:: *note mysqldump:: *note
stored-program-restrictions:: *note replication-semisync:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note implicit-commit:: *note
sql-transactional-statements:: *note trigger-syntax:: *note xa-states::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-consistent-read::

*note change-master-to:: *note replication-administration-status:: *note
replication-howto-additionalslaves:: *note mysqldump:: *note
replication-administration-pausing:: *note reset-master:: *note
reset-slave:: *note replication-semisync-installation:: *note
start-slave:: *note stop-slave:: *note replication-solutions-switch::
*note replication-rbr-usage::

*note replication-rbr-usage::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-online-add-node-remarks:: *note
upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands:: *note compressed-format:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note create-trigger:: *note delete::
*note performance-schema-pre-filtering:: *note federated-usagenotes::
*note file-summary-tables:: *note innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces::
*note handler:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-limits:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note lock-tables:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note partitioning-maintenance:: *note
partitioning-management-range-list:: *note merge-table-problems:: *note
glossary:: *note mysqldump:: *note
mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-delete-all:: *note
optimizing-innodb-ddl-operations:: *note performance-schema-timing::
*note performance-schema-table-characteristics:: *note
performance-schema-summary-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-pitr:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-memory:: *note replication-features-truncate::
*note log-destinations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
implicit-commit:: *note cond-instances-table:: *note
events-waits-current-table:: *note events-waits-history-table:: *note
events-waits-history-long-table:: *note file-instances-table:: *note
memory-storage-engine:: *note mutex-instances-table:: *note
performance-timers-table:: *note rwlock-instances-table:: *note
setup-consumers-table:: *note setup-instruments-table:: *note
setup-timers-table:: *note threads-table:: *note truncate-table:: *note
wait-summary-tables:: *note query-results::

[index top]

*note flush:: *note memory-use:: *note install-plugin:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note mysql-plugin:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note performance-schema-and-plugins::
*note pluggable-storage:: *note plugin-api-components:: *note
server-plugin-descriptors:: *note show-plugins:: *note
socket-pluggable-authentication:: *note test-pluggable-authentication::
*note plugins-table:: *note uninstall-plugin:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication:: *note writing-audit-plugins:: *note
writing-daemon-plugins:: *note writing-full-text-plugins:: *note
writing-information-schema-plugins:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
create-table:: *note create-view:: *note explain-output:: *note
information-functions:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note
internal-temporary-tables:: *note numeric-type-attributes:: *note
range-optimization:: *note searching-on-two-keys:: *note select-into::
*note select:: *note server-status-variables:: *note subqueries:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note union:: *note view-updatability:: *note
procedure-analyse:: *note view-algorithms:: *note view-syntax:: *note
xml-functions::

*note information-functions:: *note internal-temporary-tables:: *note
union:: *note view-updatability:: *note view-algorithms::

*note union::

*note optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note backup-methods:: *note
flush:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note lock-tables:: *note
innodb-locks-set:: *note mysqldump:: *note stored-program-restrictions::
*note commit:: *note implicit-commit:: *note system-optimization::

*note access-control:: *note request-access:: *note creating-accounts::
*note replication-sbr-rbr:: *note assignment-operators:: *note
innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note statement-repreparation:: *note
replication-options-binary-log:: *note
optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note c-api-function-overview::
*note c-api-multiple-queries:: *note
c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview:: *note
innodb-change-buffer:: *note check-table:: *note charset-conversion::
*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note constraint-invalid-data:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note create-temporary-table:: *note
create-trigger:: *note create-view:: *note federated-create-connection::
*note data-type-defaults:: *note date-and-time-type-syntax:: *note
innodb-deadlocks:: *note federated-usagenotes:: *note
forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note ansi-diff-foreign-keys:: *note
create-table-foreign-keys:: *note func-op-summary-ref:: *note
function-optimization:: *note functions:: *note general-thread-states::
*note grant:: *note grant-tables:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
index-hints:: *note information-functions:: *note innodb-locking:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note insert-on-duplicate:: *note insert-delayed::
*note insert:: *note internal-locking:: *note
internal-temporary-tables:: *note information-schema-introduction::
*note join:: *note kill:: *note known-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note load-data:: *note lock-tables::
*note innodb-locking-reads:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note miscellaneous-functions:: *note
faqs-stored-procs:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-tips::
*note extensions-to-ansi:: *note glossary:: *note mysql-affected-rows::
*note mysql-info:: *note mysql-insert-id:: *note mysql-num-rows:: *note
mysql-options:: *note mysql-stmt-execute:: *note mysql-stmt-insert-id::
*note mysql-stmt-num-rows:: *note mysqlbinlog-row-events:: *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: *note non-typed-operators:: *note
data-change-optimization:: *note out-of-range-and-overflow:: *note
partitioning-pruning:: *note partitioning-limitations-locking:: *note
constraint-primary-key:: *note privileges-provided:: *note using-date::
*note innodb-purge-configuration:: *note replication-features-limit::
*note replication-features-optimizer:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note partitioning-limitations:: *note rewriting-subqueries:: *note
default-privileges:: *note selecting-all:: *note log-destinations::
*note sql-mode:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-password:: *note show-warnings::
*note replication-features-slaveerrors:: *note
dba-dtrace-ref-statement:: *note subqueries:: *note subquery-errors::
*note table-locking:: *note archive-storage-engine:: *note
charset-binary-collations:: *note binary-log:: *note
blackhole-storage-engine:: *note views-table:: *note features:: *note
merge-storage-engine:: *note myisam-storage-engine:: *note
server-shutdown:: *note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note
trigger-syntax:: *note problems-connecting:: *note innodb-undo-logs::
*note view-updatability:: *note ansi-diff-update:: *note update:: *note
replication-rbr-usage:: *note query-results:: *note privilege-changes::
*note where-optimization:: *note null-mysql-store-result::

*note innodb-consistent-read::

*note innodb-deadlocks::

*note innodb-locks-set::

*note mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note sql-mode:: *note
update::

*note dba-dtrace-ref-statement::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
mysqldump-copying-to-other-server:: *note create-procedure:: *note
creating-database:: *note database-use:: *note mysqldump-sql-format::
*note replication-rules-db-options:: *note
information-schema-introduction:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysql-cluster-ndbinfo:: *note
reloading-sql-format-dumps:: *note replication-rules-examples:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note stored-routines-syntax:: *note use::

*note mysqlbinlog::

*note mysql-command-options::

*note mysqlbinlog::

[index top]

*note flow-control-statements:: *note iterate:: *note leave:: *note
statement-labels:: *note while::

[index top]

*note downgrade-binary-package:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
upgrade-binary-package:: *note xa-states::

*note xa-restrictions:: *note xa-statements:: *note xa-states::

*note xa-states::

*note downgrade-binary-package:: *note upgrade-binary-package:: *note
xa-statements:: *note xa-states::

*note downgrade-binary-package:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
upgrade-binary-package:: *note xa-states::

*note xa-restrictions:: *note xa-statements:: *note xa-states::

*note xa-statements::

A | B | C | D | F | H | I | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R | S | T | U

[index top]

*note communication-errors:: *note server-status-variables::

*note communication-errors:: *note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-status-variables::
*note binary-log::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-status-variables::
*note binary-log::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-status-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note statement-repreparation::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note internal-temporary-tables:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note internal-temporary-tables:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-status::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note insert-delayed:: *note server-status-variables::

*note insert-delayed:: *note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note innodb-performance-read_ahead:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-performance-read_ahead:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-performance-read_ahead:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note flush:: *note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-ndb-api-statistics:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note mysql-cluster-status-variables::

*note insert-delayed:: *note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note table-cache:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring:: *note
performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring:: *note
performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables:: *note
performance-schema-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note
query-cache-status-and-maintenance:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note query-cache-operation:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note
query-cache-status-and-maintenance:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note server-status-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note
query-cache-status-and-maintenance:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note mysqladmin:: *note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-status-variables::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-status-variables::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note replication-administration-status::

*note replication-features-temptables:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note replication-implementation-details:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note show-slave-status::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note order-by-optimization:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note using-encrypted-connections:: *note
encrypted-connection-protocols-ciphers:: *note server-status-variables::

*note encrypted-connection-protocols-ciphers:: *note
server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note encrypted-connection-protocols-ciphers:: *note
server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note internal-locking:: *note server-status-variables::

*note internal-locking:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note client-connections:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

*note client-connections:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note faqs-thread-pool:: *note server-status-variables::

[index top]

*note mysqladmin:: *note server-status-variables::

*note server-status-variables::

A | B | C | D | E | F | G | H | I | J | K | L | M | N | O | P | Q | R |
S | T | U | V | W

[index top]

*note audit-log-logging-control:: *note audit-log-options-variables::

*note audit-log-logging-control:: *note audit-log-options-variables::
*note audit-log:: *note audit-log-security::

*note audit-log-logging-control:: *note audit-log-options-variables::

*note audit-log-file-formats:: *note audit-log-logging-control:: *note
audit-log-options-variables:: *note audit-log::

*note audit-log-filtering:: *note audit-log-options-variables:: *note
audit-log:: *note using-system-variables::

*note audit-log-logging-control:: *note audit-log-options-variables::

*note audit-log-logging-control:: *note audit-log-options-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note windows-pluggable-authentication::

*note server-system-variables:: *note windows-pluggable-authentication::

*note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
faqs-general:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note replication-options-master::
*note example-auto-increment::

*note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
faqs-general:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-resolved:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note replication-options-master::
*note example-auto-increment::

*note replication-features-transactions::

*note innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note innodb-deadlock-detection:: *note
delete:: *note innodb-locking-transaction-model:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note lock-tables:: *note innodb-locking-reads::
*note innodb-locks-set:: *note innodb-migration:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note innodb-purge-configuration::
*note replication-features-transactions:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note commit:: *note thread-pool-operation::
*note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels::

*note alter-procedure:: *note create-procedure:: *note server-options::
*note server-system-variables:: *note stored-routines-privileges::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables::

*note install-plugin:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note internal-temporary-tables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-status-variables::
*note binary-log::

*note glossary::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-features-transactions::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note date-and-time-functions::
*note replication-rbr-safe-unsafe:: *note replication-rules-db-options::
*note replication-rules-table-options:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-general:: *note information-functions:: *note
insert-delayed:: *note locking-functions:: *note
binary-log-mysql-database:: *note mathematical-functions:: *note
miscellaneous-functions:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
faqs-replication:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-features-blackhole:: *note replication-features-load-data::
*note replication-features-memory:: *note
replication-features-temptables:: *note
replication-features-transactions:: *note replication-formats:: *note
replication-features-mysqldb:: *note binary-log-setting:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note system-variable-privileges:: *note
blackhole-storage-engine:: *note query-log:: *note
innodb-transaction-isolation-levels::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-status-variables::

*note myisam-start:: *note insert-optimization:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note c-api-prepared-statement-type-codes:: *note
charset-configuration:: *note charset-connection:: *note load-data::
*note binary-log-mixed:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-character-set:: *note set-names:: *note show-create-event:: *note
show-create-procedure:: *note show-create-trigger:: *note
show-create-view:: *note show-events:: *note show-procedure-status::
*note show-triggers:: *note binary-log:: *note events-table:: *note
routines-table:: *note triggers-table:: *note views-table::

*note cast-functions:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
charset-introducer:: *note charset-repertoire:: *note charset-literal::
*note charset-collation-coercibility:: *note charset-connection:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note encryption-functions:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note locale-support:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-character-set:: *note set-names:: *note string-literals:: *note
type-conversion::

*note alter-table:: *note charset-connection:: *note create-procedure::
*note charset-database:: *note load-data:: *note binary-log-mixed::
*note replication-features-variables:: *note server-system-variables::
*note set-character-set::

*note load-data:: *note select-into:: *note server-system-variables::
*note string-functions::

*note c-api-data-structures:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series::
*note charset-connection:: *note charset-errors:: *note faqs-cjk:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-character-set:: *note set-names::
*note charset-metadata::

*note charset-configuration:: *note charset-connection:: *note
charset-database:: *note fulltext-stopwords:: *note binary-log-mixed::
*note replication-features-charset:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note charset-server:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note charset-configuration:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
charset-metadata::

*note adding-collation-simple-8bit:: *note ldml-collation-example::
*note server-system-variables::

*note cast-functions:: *note string-functions-charset:: *note
charset-introducer:: *note charset-literal:: *note
charset-collation-coercibility:: *note charset-connection:: *note
date-and-time-functions:: *note encryption-functions:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-names:: *note show-create-event::
*note show-create-procedure:: *note show-create-trigger:: *note
show-create-view:: *note show-events:: *note show-procedure-status::
*note show-triggers:: *note binary-log:: *note events-table:: *note
routines-table:: *note triggers-table:: *note views-table:: *note
type-conversion::

*note charset-connection:: *note create-procedure:: *note
charset-database:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
binary-log::

*note charset-connection:: *note charset-database:: *note
fulltext-stopwords:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note charset-server:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note binary-log::
*note mysql-nutshell::

*note mysql-commit:: *note mysql-rollback:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note commit::

*note concurrent-inserts:: *note internal-locking:: *note
optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note communication-errors:: *note error-lost-connection:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note windows-installation::
*note glossary:: *note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note dbug-package::

*note server-system-variables::

*note storage-engine-setting:: *note innodb-benchmarking::

*note create-logfile-group:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
storage-engine-setting:: *note innodb-turning-off:: *note
replication-solutions-diffengines:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note
partitioning-limitations-functions:: *note server-system-variables::

*note create-table:: *note external-locking:: *note faqs-replication::
*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
mysql-nutshell:: *note crashing::

*note insert-delayed:: *note server-system-variables::

*note insert-delayed:: *note server-system-variables::

*note insert-delayed:: *note server-system-variables::

*note arithmetic-functions:: *note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note error-interfaces:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-errors::

*note events-configuration:: *note libmysqld-restrictions:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note events-privileges::

*note purge-binary-logs:: *note log-file-maintenance:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note writing-authentication-plugins-proxy-users:: *note proxy-users::
*note server-system-variables:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-server-side::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note alter-table:: *note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
sql-mode:: *note server-system-variables:: *note binary-log::

*note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-howto-rawdata:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note plugin-types::

*note fulltext-boolean:: *note replication-howto-rawdata:: *note
fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
plugin-types::

*note server-system-variables::

*note replication-howto-rawdata:: *note fulltext-fine-tuning:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note glossary:: *note log-destinations:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note query-log::

*note log-destinations:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note query-log::

*note group-by-functions:: *note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note replication-semisync-installation:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note nontransactional-tables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note partitioning:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note source-ssl-library-configuration:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note windows-symbolic-links:: *note
symbolic-links-to-tables::

*note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note charset-applications:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note server-system-variables::

*note multiple-key-caches:: *note
performance-schema-runtime-configuration:: *note
resetting-permissions-unix:: *note resetting-permissions-windows:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note memory-storage-engine::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note faqs-innodb-change-buffer::

*note innodb-buffer-pool-flushing::

*note innodb-adaptive-hash:: *note
innodb-performance-thread_concurrency:: *note glossary:: *note
optimizing-innodb-configuration-variables:: *note truncate-table:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-performance-use_sys_malloc:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration::

*note innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
glossary:: *note innodb-system-tablespace::

*note innodb-auto-increment-handling:: *note
optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading:: *note information-functions::
*note innodb-locking:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note glossary::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-multiple-buffer-pools:: *note memory-use:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
glossary::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-buffer-pool:: *note innodb-multiple-buffer-pools:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note memory-use:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
glossary:: *note optimizing-innodb-diskio:: *note
server-error-reference::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-change-buffer:: *note glossary:: *note
optimizing-innodb-transaction-management::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note glossary::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note glossary::

*note glossary::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-performance-thread_concurrency:: *note innodb-parameters::
*note optimizing-innodb-configuration-variables:: *note
innodb-trx-table::

*note innodb-file-space:: *note innodb-init-startup-configuration::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-system-tablespace:: *note
error-creating-innodb::

*note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters::
*note error-creating-innodb::

*note glossary::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-doublewrite-buffer:: *note mysql-acid:: *note
innodb-disk-io:: *note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note
glossary::

*note innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking:: *note
downgrade-binary-package:: *note innodb-recovery:: *note glossary::
*note innodb-redo-log:: *note server-shutdown:: *note
upgrade-binary-package::

*note innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking-table-access:: *note
innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking:: *note
converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note create-table:: *note
using-innodb-tables:: *note innodb-compression-usage:: *note
innodb-file-format-enabling:: *note innodb-file-format-identifying::
*note innodb-row-format:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note glossary::
*note innodb-compression-syntax-warnings:: *note innodb-compatibility::

*note innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking-table-access:: *note
innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking:: *note innodb-parameters::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note create-table:: *note
using-innodb-tables:: *note innodb-compression-usage:: *note
innodb-file-format-enabling:: *note innodb-file-space:: *note
innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: *note create-table-files:: *note
mysql-acid:: *note innodb-row-format:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
innodb-tablespace-monitor:: *note glossary:: *note optimize-table::
*note innodb-truncate-table-reclaim-space:: *note
replication-solutions-partitioning:: *note partitioning-limitations::
*note innodb-compression-syntax-warnings:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting-datadict:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-redo-log-buffer::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note mysql-acid:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-redo-log-buffer:: *note
optimizing-innodb-transaction-management::

*note innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
windows-installation:: *note optimizing-innodb-diskio::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-parameters::

*note forcing-innodb-recovery:: *note bug-reports:: *note
innodb-recovery:: *note optimizing-innodb-transaction-management:: *note
rebuilding-tables::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-buffer-pool-flushing:: *note
innodb-configuring-io-capacity:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
faqs-innodb-change-buffer:: *note optimizing-innodb-diskio:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note column-indexes:: *note create-index:: *note create-table:: *note
downgrading-to-previous-series:: *note innodb-limits:: *note
innodb-row-format:: *note glossary::

*note innodb-deadlock-detection:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
glossary:: *note replication-features-timeout:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note server-error-reference:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note innodb-locking:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note glossary:: *note
innodb-transaction-isolation-levels::

*note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-redo-log-buffer::
*note glossary:: *note optimizing-innodb-logging::

*note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters::
*note glossary:: *note optimizing-innodb-diskio:: *note
optimizing-innodb-logging:: *note using-system-variables::

*note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters::
*note glossary:: *note optimizing-innodb-logging::

*note innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note innodb-parameters::
*note glossary::

*note innodb-buffer-pool-flushing:: *note optimizing-innodb-diskio::

*note innodb-multi-versioning:: *note glossary:: *note
innodb-purge-configuration::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion::
*note glossary::

*note innodb-buffer-pool:: *note innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion::

*note glossary::

*note glossary::

*note glossary:: *note innodb-system-tablespace::

*note innodb-deadlocks:: *note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note
innodb-troubleshooting::

*note innodb-purge-configuration::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note glossary:: *note
innodb-purge-configuration::

*note innodb-performance-read_ahead:: *note glossary:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-performance-read_ahead:: *note innodb-parameters::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads:: *note innodb-standard-monitor::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note mysql-threads:: *note
innodb-linux-native-aio:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-undo-logs::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-performance-spin_lock_polling::

*note index-statistics:: *note glossary::

*note mysql-nutshell::

*note analyze-table:: *note innodb-statistics-estimation:: *note
innodb-analyze-table-complexity::

*note create-table:: *note innodb-compression-internals:: *note
innodb-row-format:: *note innodb-installation:: *note
column-count-limit:: *note glossary:: *note sql-mode:: *note
innodb-compression-syntax-warnings:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note glossary:: *note optimizing-innodb-transaction-management::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note innodb-locks-set::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-performance-thread_concurrency:: *note
innodb-standard-monitor:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
faqs-thread-pool:: *note optimizing-innodb-configuration-variables::

*note innodb-performance-thread_concurrency::

*note glossary::

*note innodb-parameters:: *note glossary:: *note
optimizing-innodb-diskio:: *note innodb-linux-native-aio:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

*note innodb-performance-use_sys_malloc:: *note
innodb-performance-thread_concurrency:: *note innodb-parameters::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note
innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads:: *note innodb-standard-monitor::
*note innodb-parameters:: *note mysql-threads:: *note
innodb-linux-native-aio:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note federated-usagenotes:: *note server-system-variables::

*note communication-errors:: *note mysql-real-connect:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note nested-loop-joins:: *note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables::

*note optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading:: *note server-configuration::
*note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note estimating-performance:: *note
memory-use:: *note myisam-repair:: *note
innodb-init-startup-configuration:: *note known-issues:: *note
multiple-key-caches:: *note delete-optimization:: *note
repair-table-optimization:: *note key-cache-restructuring:: *note
server-options:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note structured-system-variables:: *note
myisam-key-cache::

*note midpoint-insertion:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
structured-system-variables::

*note key-cache-block-size:: *note key-cache-restructuring:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note structured-system-variables::

*note midpoint-insertion:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
structured-system-variables::

[index top]

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note server-system-variables::

*note partitioning-limitations:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note server-system-variables::
*note error-message-language:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note upgrading-from-previous-series:: *note server-system-variables::
*note error-message-language:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note date-and-time-functions:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
locale-support:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note string-functions::

*note server-system-variables::

*note load-xml::

*note load-data:: *note source-configuration-options:: *note
load-data-local:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note faqs-stored-procs:: *note
stored-programs-logging:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note error-log-unix:: *note error-log-windows:: *note
docker-mysql-more-topics:: *note server-system-variables::

*note log-destinations:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note query-log:: *note slow-query-log::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
slow-query-log::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
replication-solutions-performance:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-option-tables:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
replication-solutions-switch::

*note server-system-variables:: *note slow-query-log::

*note error-log-filtering:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-logs:: *note mysqladmin:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
slow-query-log::

*note faqs-replication:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
table-locking::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-advanced-options:: *note create-table-foreign-keys:: *note
grant:: *note replication-rules:: *note bug-reports:: *note
identifier-case-sensitivity:: *note replication-features-variables::
*note revoke:: *note server-system-variables:: *note show-tables:: *note
charset-collation-information-schema::

[index top]

*note glossary::

*note group-by-functions:: *note communication-errors:: *note
comparison-operators:: *note deleting-from-related-tables:: *note
memory-use:: *note error-lost-connection:: *note c-api:: *note
gone-away:: *note mysql-stmt-send-long-data:: *note mysql-use-result::
*note mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
packet-too-large:: *note replication-features-max-allowed-packet:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
string-functions:: *note blob::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note binary-log::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note server-logs:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note log-file-maintenance:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note binary-log:: *note slave-logs-relaylog::

*note replication-options-binary-log::

*note host-cache:: *note flush:: *note blocked-host:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note not-enough-file-handles:: *note
client-connections:: *note table-cache:: *note
performance-schema-system-variables:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note thread-pool-operation:: *note
too-many-connections::

*note performance-schema-system-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note load-data:: *note resignal:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-errors:: *note show-warnings::

*note memory-use:: *note internal-temporary-tables:: *note
table-size-limit:: *note replication-features-memory:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note cursor-restrictions:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
memory-storage-engine::

*note server-system-variables::

*note explain-output:: *note mysql-tips:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note set-variable::

*note order-by-optimization:: *note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-stmt-send-long-data:: *note server-system-variables::

*note sql-prepared-statements:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note server-system-variables:: *note slave-logs-relaylog::

*note analyze-table:: *note server-system-variables::

*note known-issues:: *note order-by-optimization:: *note select:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note blob::

*note server-system-variables:: *note stored-routines-syntax::

*note server-system-variables::

*note flush:: *note grant:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note user-resources::

*note lock-tables:: *note metadata-locking:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note table-locking::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note slow-query-log::

*note server-system-variables::

*note create-table:: *note table-size-limit:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note myisam-start:: *note repair-table-optimization:: *note
partitioning-limitations:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note myisam-start:: *note optimizing-queries-myisam:: *note
server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
myisam-maintenance-schedule:: *note table-corruption:: *note
myisam-storage-engine:: *note using-log-files::

*note server-system-variables::

*note alter-table:: *note myisam-start:: *note
myisamchk-general-options:: *note repair-table-optimization:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note index-statistics:: *note server-system-variables::

*note memory-use:: *note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note connection-options:: *note
connecting:: *note mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note
mysqladmin:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump::
*note mysqlimport:: *note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note
windows-select-server:: *note server-system-variables:: *note features::
*note server-type-network::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note explain-output:: *note mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-what-is-new::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-tcp-definition:: *note mysql-cluster-log-statistics::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-transactions:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-operations:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-server-transactions::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note memory-use:: *note c-api:: *note mysqldump:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note error-lost-connection:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note partitioning-limitations-storage-engines:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note index-hints:: *note server-system-variables::

*note alter-table:: *note server-system-variables::

*note assigning-passwords:: *note old-client:: *note create-user:: *note
encryption-functions:: *note application-password-use:: *note
password-hashing:: *note server-system-variables:: *note set-password::

*note server-system-variables::

*note not-enough-file-handles:: *note client-connections:: *note
table-cache:: *note innodb-parameters:: *note
performance-schema-system-variables:: *note partitioning-limitations::
*note server-system-variables::

*note controlling-query-plan-evaluation:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note controlling-query-plan-evaluation:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note condition-pushdown-optimization:: *note index-merge-optimization::
*note server-system-variables:: *note switchable-optimizations:: *note
mysql-nutshell::

[index top]

*note performance-schema-quick-start:: *note
performance-schema-startup-configuration:: *note
performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables:: *note
performance-schema-table-descriptions:: *note show-engine:: *note
events-waits-history-long-table::

*note performance-schema-system-variables:: *note
performance-schema-table-descriptions:: *note show-engine:: *note
events-waits-history-table::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-monitoring:: *note
performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-system-variables::

*note performance-schema-status-variables:: *note
performance-schema-system-variables:: *note show-engine::

*note server-system-variables::

*note adding-udf:: *note password-security-admin:: *note
compiling-plugin-libraries:: *note create-function-udf:: *note
data-directory-initialization:: *note install-plugin:: *note
plugin-loading:: *note audit-log-installation:: *note
security-against-attack:: *note obtaining-udf-information:: *note
pam-pluggable-authentication:: *note pluggable-authentication:: *note
pluggable-storage:: *note plugin-api-components:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-plugins:: *note
socket-pluggable-authentication:: *note test-pluggable-authentication::
*note plugins-table:: *note thread-pool-installation:: *note
writing-authentication-plugins-setup:: *note
windows-pluggable-authentication:: *note writing-audit-plugins:: *note
writing-daemon-plugins:: *note writing-full-text-plugins:: *note
writing-information-schema-plugins:: *note
writing-semisynchronous-replication-plugins::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note show-profile:: *note
profiling-table::

*note server-system-variables:: *note show-profile::

*note server-system-variables::

*note proxy-users:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note server-system-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note server-system-variables::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
query-cache::

*note query-cache-configuration:: *note query-cache-in-select:: *note
select:: *note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note memory-use:: *note repair-table-optimization:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note account-management-statements:: *note assigning-passwords:: *note
replication-solutions-backups-read-only:: *note create-user:: *note
drop-user:: *note general-thread-states:: *note grant:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note rename-user:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note revoke:: *note log-destinations::
*note server-system-variables:: *note set-password::

*note server-configuration:: *note memory-use:: *note
order-by-optimization:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-solutions-performance:: *note
replication-howto-additionalslaves:: *note replication-options-slave::
*note slave-logs-relaylog::

*note replication-howto-additionalslaves:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note slave-logs-relaylog::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note slave-logs-status::

*note change-master-to:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note slave-io-thread-states:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note
replication-semisync-monitoring:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note replication-semisync-interface:: *note
replication-semisync-installation:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note password-hashing:: *note server-system-variables::

*note data-directory-initialization:: *note linux-installation-rpm::
*note load-data:: *note security-against-attack:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
select-into:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
howto-set-selinux-context:: *note string-functions::

*note server-advanced-options:: *note audit-log-file-formats:: *note
replication-howto-additionalslaves:: *note miscellaneous-functions::
*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note replication-options:: *note
replication-configuration:: *note replication-options-master:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note replication-howto-masterbaseconfig::
*note replication-howto-slavebaseconfig:: *note
replication-howto-existingdata:: *note show-slave-status:: *note
replication-problems:: *note replication-rbr-usage::

*note mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld:: *note
mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note connection-options:: *note connecting:: *note
mysql-command-options:: *note mysql-upgrade:: *note mysqladmin:: *note
mysqlbinlog:: *note mysqlcheck:: *note mysqldump:: *note mysqlimport::
*note mysqlshow:: *note mysqlslap:: *note server-system-variables::
*note multiple-windows-command-line-servers:: *note
windows-server-first-start:: *note features:: *note
server-type-network::

*note mysql-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
multiple-windows-command-line-servers::

*note external-locking:: *note server-system-variables::

*note host-cache:: *note default-privileges:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note windows-testing:: *note
problems-connecting::

*note can-not-connect-to-server:: *note upgrading-from-previous-series::
*note host-cache:: *note faqs-replication:: *note gone-away:: *note
pluggable-authentication:: *note resetting-permissions-generic:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note replication-howto-masterbaseconfig::
*note problems-connecting:: *note replication-problems:: *note
replication-upgrade::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-starting::

*note connection-compression-control:: *note replication-options-slave::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
replication-features-memory:: *note replication-options-slave:: *note
replication-rbr-usage::

*note replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note backup-methods::
*note replication-options-slave:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
temporary-files::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note change-master-to:: *note replication-administration-status:: *note
replication-features-shutdowns:: *note slave-io-thread-states:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note glossary::

*note replication-features-timeout:: *note replication-options-slave::

*note mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note
replication-options-slave::

*note server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note log-destinations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
slow-query-log::

*note log-destinations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
slow-query-log::

*note server-system-variables::

*note myisam-repair:: *note order-by-optimization:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-variable::

*note comparison-operators:: *note create-table:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note replication-features-variables:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note binary-log::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-replication-issues:: *note mysqlbinlog:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-syntax:: *note privileges-provided:: *note
replication-options-reference:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-sql-log-bin:: *note system-variable-privileges:: *note
replication-upgrade::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note glossary:: *note
privileges-provided:: *note replication-options-reference:: *note
log-destinations:: *note server-system-variables:: *note query-log::

*note server-system-variables::

*note innodb-best-practices:: *note create-event:: *note
create-procedure:: *note create-trigger:: *note
precision-math-expressions:: *note bug-reports:: *note load-data:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note compatibility:: *note using-date:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note sql-mode:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note show-create-view:: *note signal:: *note
binary-log:: *note views-table:: *note option-files:: *note
using-system-variables::

*note error-interfaces:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-warnings::

*note server-system-variables:: *note show-create-database:: *note
show-create-table::

*note mysql-tips:: *note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-tips:: *note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-slave:: *note show-slave-status::

*note server-system-variables::

*note using-encrypted-connections:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note using-encrypted-connections:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note using-encrypted-connections:: *note server-system-variables::

*note create-logfile-group:: *note replication-features-variables::
*note server-system-variables:: *note
replication-solutions-diffengines:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-binary-log:: *note mysql-acid:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note replication-features-shutdowns:: *note
binary-log::

*note server-system-variables::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-options-slave::

*note replication-features-shutdowns:: *note replication-options-slave::

*note time-zone-support:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note memory-use:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-configuration:: *note not-enough-file-handles:: *note
general-thread-states:: *note table-cache:: *note memory-use:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note using-gdb-on-mysqld:: *note client-connections:: *note
server-status-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note thread-pool-components::

*note server-system-variables:: *note tp-thread-group-state-table::
*note thread-pool-components::

*note server-system-variables:: *note thread-pool-components:: *note
thread-pool-operation::

*note server-system-variables:: *note thread-pool-components::

*note server-system-variables:: *note tp-thread-group-state-table::
*note tp-thread-group-stats-table:: *note thread-pool-components:: *note
thread-pool-operation:: *note thread-pool-tuning::

*note server-system-variables:: *note thread-pool-components:: *note
thread-pool-operation:: *note thread-pool-tuning::

*note server-system-variables:: *note tp-thread-group-state-table::
*note tp-thread-group-stats-table:: *note thread-pool-components:: *note
thread-pool-operation:: *note thread-pool-tuning::

*note client-connections:: *note memory-use:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note stored-routines-syntax::

*note server-system-variables::

*note create-event:: *note date-and-time-functions:: *note
events-metadata:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note time-zone-support::
*note replication-features-variables:: *note server-options:: *note
server-system-variables:: *note datetime::

*note server-system-variables:: *note mysql-nutshell::

*note federated-usagenotes:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note server-system-variables::

*note memory-use:: *note internal-temporary-tables:: *note
cursor-restrictions:: *note server-status-variables:: *note
server-system-variables::

*note replication-solutions-backups-rawdata:: *note cannot-create::
*note backup-methods:: *note innodb-create-index-limitations:: *note
source-configuration-options:: *note order-by-optimization:: *note
replication-options-slave:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note mysql-cluster-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-transaction::

[index top]

*note converting-tables-to-innodb:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
replication-features-variables:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
binary-log::

*note server-system-variables:: *note view-updatability::

[index top]

*note audit-log-file-formats:: *note information-functions:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables:: *note show-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

*note server-system-variables::

[index top]

*note communication-errors:: *note gone-away:: *note
mysql-real-connect:: *note server-system-variables::

*note error-interfaces:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
show-errors:: *note show-warnings:: *note signal::

R | S

[index top]

*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-engines::
*note innodb-deadlocks-handling:: *note innodb-locking:: *note
innodb-parameters:: *note mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note
innodb-locks-set:: *note faqs-general:: *note faqs-mysql-cluster:: *note
mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-usage:: *note
optimizing-innodb-transaction-management:: *note set-transaction:: *note
binary-log-setting:: *note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note
truncate-table::

*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note set-transaction:: *note
binary-log-setting:: *note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note
truncate-table::

*note server-options:: *note set-transaction::

*note server-options:: *note set-transaction::

*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note innodb-locking:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note binary-log-mixed:: *note
mysqldump:: *note optimizing-innodb-transaction-management:: *note
set-transaction:: *note commit:: *note
innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note xa::

*note server-options:: *note server-system-variables:: *note
set-transaction::

[index top]

*note innodb-consistent-read:: *note query-cache-operation:: *note
mysql-cluster-limitations-transactions:: *note innodb-locks-set:: *note
binary-log-mixed:: *note server-options:: *note set-transaction:: *note
commit:: *note innodb-transaction-isolation-levels:: *note xa::


File: manual.info.tmp,  Node: glossary,  Prev: indexes,  Up: Top

Appendix D MySQL Glossary
*************************

These terms are commonly used in information about the MySQL database
server.  This glossary originated as a reference for terminology about
the InnoDB storage engine, and the majority of definitions are
InnoDB-related.

ACID

An acronym standing for atomicity, consistency, isolation, and
durability.  These properties are all desirable in a database system,
and are all closely tied to the notion of a *transaction*.  The
transactional features of 'InnoDB' adhere to the ACID principles.

Transactions are *atomic* units of work that can be *committed* or
*rolled back*.  When a transaction makes multiple changes to the
database, either all the changes succeed when the transaction is
committed, or all the changes are undone when the transaction is rolled
back.

The database remains in a consistent state at all times -- after each
commit or rollback, and while transactions are in progress.  If related
data is being updated across multiple tables, queries see either all old
values or all new values, not a mix of old and new values.

Transactions are protected (isolated) from each other while they are in
progress; they cannot interfere with each other or see each other's
uncommitted data.  This isolation is achieved through the *locking*
mechanism.  Experienced users can adjust the *isolation level*, trading
off less protection in favor of increased performance and *concurrency*,
when they can be sure that the transactions really do not interfere with
each other.

The results of transactions are durable: once a commit operation
succeeds, the changes made by that transaction are safe from power
failures, system crashes, race conditions, or other potential dangers
that many non-database applications are vulnerable to.  Durability
typically involves writing to disk storage, with a certain amount of
redundancy to protect against power failures or software crashes during
write operations.  (In 'InnoDB', the *doublewrite buffer* assists with
durability.)  adaptive flushing

An algorithm for *InnoDB* tables that smooths out the I/O overhead
introduced by *checkpoints*.  Instead of *flushing* all modified *pages*
from the *buffer pool* to the *data files* at once, MySQL periodically
flushes small sets of modified pages.  The adaptive flushing algorithm
extends this process by estimating the optimal rate to perform these
periodic flushes, based on the rate of flushing and how fast *redo*
information is generated.  adaptive hash index

An optimization for 'InnoDB' tables that can speed up lookups using '='
and 'IN' operators, by constructing a *hash index* in memory.  MySQL
monitors index searches for 'InnoDB' tables, and if queries could
benefit from a hash index, it builds one automatically for index *pages*
that are frequently accessed.  In a sense, the adaptive hash index
configures MySQL at runtime to take advantage of ample main memory,
coming closer to the architecture of main-memory databases.  This
feature is controlled by the 'innodb_adaptive_hash_index' configuration
option.  Because this feature benefits some workloads and not others,
and the memory used for the hash index is reserved in the *buffer pool*,
typically you should benchmark with this feature both enabled and
disabled.

The hash index is always built based on an existing *B-tree* index on
the table.  MySQL can build a hash index on a prefix of any length of
the key defined for the B-tree, depending on the pattern of searches
against the index.  A hash index can be partial; the whole B-tree index
does not need to be cached in the buffer pool.

In MySQL 5.6 and higher, another way to take advantage of fast
single-value lookups with 'InnoDB' tables is to use the 'InnoDB'
*memcached* plugin.  See InnoDB memcached Plugin
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-memcached.html) for
details.  AIO

Acronym for *asynchronous I/O*. You might see this acronym in 'InnoDB'
messages or keywords.  Antelope

The code name for the original 'InnoDB' *file format*.  It supports the
*REDUNDANT* and *COMPACT* row formats, but not the newer *DYNAMIC* and
*COMPRESSED* row formats available in the *Barracuda* file format.
application programming interface (API)

A set of functions or procedures.  An API provides a stable set of names
and types for functions, procedures, parameters, and return values.
apply

When a backup produced by the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product does not
include the most recent changes that occurred while the backup was
underway, the process of updating the backup files to include those
changes is known as the *apply* step.  It is specified by the
'apply-log' option of the 'mysqlbackup' command.

Before the changes are applied, we refer to the files as a *raw backup*.
After the changes are applied, we refer to the files as a *prepared
backup*.  The changes are recorded in the *ibbackup_logfile* file; once
the apply step is finished, this file is no longer necessary.  .ARM file

Metadata for 'ARCHIVE' tables.  Contrast with *.ARZ file*.  Files with
this extension are always included in backups produced by the
'mysqlbackup' command of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  .ARZ
file

Data for ARCHIVE tables.  Contrast with *.ARM file*.  Files with this
extension are always included in backups produced by the 'mysqlbackup'
command of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  asynchronous I/O

A type of I/O operation that allows other processing to proceed before
the I/O is completed.  Also known as *nonblocking I/O* and abbreviated
as *AIO*. 'InnoDB' uses this type of I/O for certain operations that can
run in parallel without affecting the reliability of the database, such
as reading pages into the *buffer pool* that have not actually been
requested, but might be needed soon.

Historically, 'InnoDB' used asynchronous I/O on Windows systems only.
Starting with the InnoDB Plugin 1.1 and MySQL 5.5, 'InnoDB 'uses
asynchronous I/O on Linux systems.  This change introduces a dependency
on 'libaio'.  Asynchronous I/O on Linux systems is configured using the
'innodb_use_native_aio' option, which is enabled by default.  On other
Unix-like systems, InnoDB uses synchronous I/O only.  atomic

In the SQL context, *transactions* are units of work that either succeed
entirely (when *committed*) or have no effect at all (when *rolled
back*).  The indivisible ("atomic") property of transactions is the 'A'
in the acronym *ACID*. atomic DDL

An atomic _DDL_ statement is one that combines the _data dictionary_
updates, _storage engine_ operations, and _binary log_ writes associated
with a DDL operation into a single, atomic transaction.  The transaction
is either fully committed or rolled back, even if the server halts
during the operation.  Atomic DDL support was added in MySQL 8.0.  For
more information, see Atomic Data Definition Statement Support
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/atomic-ddl.html).  atomic
instruction

Special instructions provided by the CPU, to ensure that critical
low-level operations cannot be interrupted.  auto-increment

A property of a table column (specified by the 'AUTO_INCREMENT' keyword)
that automatically adds an ascending sequence of values in the column.

It saves work for the developer, not to have to produce new unique
values when inserting new rows.  It provides useful information for the
query optimizer, because the column is known to be not null and with
unique values.  The values from such a column can be used as lookup keys
in various contexts, and because they are auto-generated there is no
reason to ever change them; for this reason, primary key columns are
often specified as auto-incrementing.

Auto-increment columns can be problematic with statement-based
replication, because replaying the statements on a slave might not
produce the same set of column values as on the master, due to timing
issues.  When you have an auto-incrementing primary key, you can use
statement-based replication only with the setting
'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=1'.  If you have 'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2',
which allows higher concurrency for insert operations, use *row-based
replication* rather than *statement-based replication*.  The setting
'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=0' should not be used except for compatibility
purposes.

Consecutive lock mode ('innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=1') is the default
setting prior to MySQL 8.0.3.  As of MySQL 8.0.3, interleaved lock mode
('innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2') is the default, which reflects the change
from statement-based to row-based replication as the default replication
type.  auto-increment locking

The convenience of an *auto-increment* primary key involves some
tradeoff with concurrency.  In the simplest case, if one transaction is
inserting values into the table, any other transactions must wait to do
their own inserts into that table, so that rows inserted by the first
transaction receive consecutive primary key values.  'InnoDB' includes
optimizations and the 'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode' option so that you can
configure and optimal balance between predictable sequences of
auto-increment values and maximum *concurrency* for insert operations.
autocommit

A setting that causes a *commit* operation after each *SQL* statement.
This mode is not recommended for working with 'InnoDB' tables with
*transactions* that span several statements.  It can help performance
for *read-only transactions* on 'InnoDB' tables, where it minimizes
overhead from *locking* and generation of *undo* data, especially in
MySQL 5.6.4 and up.  It is also appropriate for working with *note
'MyISAM': myisam-storage-engine. tables, where transactions are not
applicable.  availability

The ability to cope with, and if necessary recover from, failures on the
host, including failures of MySQL, the operating system, or the hardware
and maintenance activity that may otherwise cause downtime.  Often
paired with *scalability* as critical aspects of a large-scale
deployment.

B-tree

A tree data structure that is popular for use in database indexes.  The
structure is kept sorted at all times, enabling fast lookup for exact
matches (equals operator) and ranges (for example, greater than, less
than, and 'BETWEEN' operators).  This type of index is available for
most storage engines, such as *note 'InnoDB': innodb-storage-engine. and
*note 'MyISAM': myisam-storage-engine.

Because B-tree nodes can have many children, a B-tree is not the same as
a binary tree, which is limited to 2 children per node.

Contrast with *hash index*, which is only available in the *note
'MEMORY': memory-storage-engine. storage engine.  The 'MEMORY' storage
engine can also use B-tree indexes, and you should choose B-tree indexes
for 'MEMORY' tables if some queries use range operators.

The use of the term B-tree is intended as a reference to the general
class of index design.  B-tree structures used by MySQL storage engines
may be regarded as variants due to sophistications not present in a
classic B-tree design.  For related information, refer to the 'InnoDB'
Page Structure Fil Header
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/innodb-fil-header.html) section
of the MySQL Internals Manual
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/internals/en/index.html).  backticks

Identifiers within MySQL SQL statements must be quoted using the
backtick character ('`') if they contain special characters or reserved
words.  For example, to refer to a table named 'FOO#BAR' or a column
named 'SELECT', you would specify the identifiers as '`FOO#BAR`' and
'`SELECT`'.  Since the backticks provide an extra level of safety, they
are used extensively in program-generated SQL statements, where the
identifier names might not be known in advance.

Many other database systems use double quotation marks ('"') around such
special names.  For portability, you can enable 'ANSI_QUOTES' mode in
MySQL and use double quotation marks instead of backticks to qualify
identifier names.  backup

The process of copying some or all table data and metadata from a MySQL
instance, for safekeeping.  Can also refer to the set of copied files.
This is a crucial task for DBAs.  The reverse of this process is the
*restore* operation.

With MySQL, *physical backups* are performed by the *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* product, and *logical backups* are performed by the 'mysqldump'
command.  These techniques have different characteristics in terms of
size and representation of the backup data, and speed (especially speed
of the restore operation).

Backups are further classified as *hot*, *warm*, or *cold* depending on
how much they interfere with normal database operation.  (Hot backups
have the least interference, cold backups the most.)  Barracuda

The code name for an 'InnoDB' *file format* that supports the
*COMPRESSED* row format that enables InnoDB table compression, and the
*DYNAMIC* row format that improves the storage layout for long
variable-length columns.

The *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product version 3.5 and above supports
backing up tablespaces that use the Barracuda file format.  beta

An early stage in the life of a software product, when it is available
only for evaluation, typically without a definite release number or a
number less than 1.  'InnoDB' does not use the beta designation,
preferring an *early adopter* phase that can extend over several point
releases, leading to a *GA* release.  binary log

A file containing a record of all statements that attempt to change
table data.  These statements can be replayed to bring slave servers up
to date in a *replication* scenario, or to bring a database up to date
after restoring table data from a backup.  The binary logging feature
can be turned on and off, although Oracle recommends always enabling it
if you use replication or perform backups.

You can examine the contents of the binary log, or replay those
statements during replication or recovery, by using the *note
'mysqlbinlog': mysqlbinlog. command.  For full information about the
binary log, see *note binary-log::.  For MySQL configuration options
related to the binary log, see *note replication-options-binary-log::.

For the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product, the file name of the binary
log and the current position within the file are important details.  To
record this information for the master server when taking a backup in a
replication context, you can specify the '--slave-info' option.

Prior to MySQL 5.0, a similar capability was available, known as the
update log.  In MySQL 5.0 and higher, the binary log replaces the update
log.  binlog

An informal name for the *binary log* file.  For example, you might see
this abbreviation used in e-mail messages or forum discussions.  blind
query expansion

A special mode of *full-text search* enabled by the 'WITH QUERY
EXPANSION' clause.  It performs the search twice, where the search
phrase for the second search is the original search phrase concatenated
with the few most highly relevant documents from the first search.  This
technique is mainly applicable for short search phrases, perhaps only a
single word.  It can uncover relevant matches where the precise search
term does not occur in the document.  bottleneck

A portion of a system that is constrained in size or capacity, that has
the effect of limiting overall throughput.  For example, a memory area
might be smaller than necessary; access to a single required resource
might prevent multiple CPU cores from running simultaneously; or waiting
for disk I/O to complete might prevent the CPU from running at full
capacity.  Removing bottlenecks tends to improve *concurrency*.  For
example, the ability to have multiple 'InnoDB' *buffer pool* instances
reduces contention when multiple sessions read from and write to the
buffer pool simultaneously.  bounce

A *shutdown* operation immediately followed by a restart.  Ideally with
a relatively short *warmup* period so that performance and throughput
quickly return to a high level.  buddy allocator

A mechanism for managing different-sized *pages* in the InnoDB *buffer
pool*.  buffer

A memory or disk area used for temporary storage.  Data is buffered in
memory so that it can be written to disk efficiently, with a few large
I/O operations rather than many small ones.  Data is buffered on disk
for greater reliability, so that it can be recovered even when a *crash*
or other failure occurs at the worst possible time.  The main types of
buffers used by InnoDB are the *buffer pool*, the *doublewrite buffer*,
and the *change buffer*.  buffer pool

The memory area that holds cached 'InnoDB' data for both tables and
indexes.  For efficiency of high-volume read operations, the buffer pool
is divided into *pages* that can potentially hold multiple rows.  For
efficiency of cache management, the buffer pool is implemented as a
linked list of pages; data that is rarely used is aged out of the cache,
using a variation of the *LRU* algorithm.  On systems with large memory,
you can improve concurrency by dividing the buffer pool into multiple
*buffer pool instances*.

Several 'InnoDB' status variables, 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA' tables, and
'performance_schema' tables help to monitor the internal workings of the
buffer pool.  Starting in MySQL 5.6, you can avoid a lengthy warmup
period after restarting the server, particularly for instances with
large buffer pools, by saving the buffer pool state at server shutdown
and restoring the buffer pool to the same state at server startup.  See
Saving and Restoring the Buffer Pool State
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-preload-buffer-pool.html).
buffer pool instance

Any of the multiple regions into which the *buffer pool* can be divided,
controlled by the 'innodb_buffer_pool_instances' configuration option.
The total memory size specified by 'innodb_buffer_pool_size' is divided
among all buffer pool instances.  Typically, having multiple buffer pool
instances is appropriate for systems that allocate multiple gigabytes to
the 'InnoDB' buffer pool, with each instance being one gigabyte or
larger.  On systems loading or looking up large amounts of data in the
buffer pool from many concurrent sessions, having multiple buffer pool
instances reduces contention for exclusive access to data structures
that manage the buffer pool.  built-in

The built-in 'InnoDB' storage engine within MySQL is the original form
of distribution for the storage engine.  Contrast with the *InnoDB
Plugin*.  Starting with MySQL 5.5, the InnoDB Plugin is merged back into
the MySQL code base as the built-in 'InnoDB' storage engine (known as
InnoDB 1.1).

This distinction is important mainly in MySQL 5.1, where a feature or
bug fix might apply to the InnoDB Plugin but not the built-in 'InnoDB',
or vice versa.  business rules

The relationships and sequences of actions that form the basis of
business software, used to run a commercial company.  Sometimes these
rules are dictated by law, other times by company policy.  Careful
planning ensures that the relationships encoded and enforced by the
database, and the actions performed through application logic,
accurately reflect the real policies of the company and can handle
real-life situations.

For example, an employee leaving a company might trigger a sequence of
actions from the human resources department.  The human resources
database might also need the flexibility to represent data about a
person who has been hired, but not yet started work.  Closing an account
at an online service might result in data being removed from a database,
or the data might be moved or flagged so that it could be recovered if
the account is re-opened.  A company might establish policies regarding
salary maximums, minimums, and adjustments, in addition to basic sanity
checks such as the salary not being a negative number.  A retail
database might not allow a purchase with the same serial number to be
returned more than once, or might not allow credit card purchases above
a certain value, while a database used to detect fraud might allow these
kinds of things.

cache

The general term for any memory area that stores copies of data for
frequent or high-speed retrieval.  In 'InnoDB', the primary kind of
cache structure is the *buffer pool*.  cardinality

The number of different values in a table *column*.  When queries refer
to columns that have an associated *index*, the cardinality of each
column influences which access method is most efficient.  For example,
for a column with a *unique constraint*, the number of different values
is equal to the number of rows in the table.  If a table has a million
rows but only 10 different values for a particular column, each value
occurs (on average) 100,000 times.  A query such as 'SELECT c1 FROM t1
WHERE c1 = 50;' thus might return 1 row or a huge number of rows, and
the database server might process the query differently depending on the
cardinality of 'c1'.

If the values in a column have a very uneven distribution, the
cardinality might not be a good way to determine the best query plan.
For example, 'SELECT c1 FROM t1 WHERE c1 = x;' might return 1 row when
'x=50' and a million rows when 'x=30'.  In such a case, you might need
to use *index hints* to pass along advice about which lookup method is
more efficient for a particular query.

Cardinality can also apply to the number of distinct values present in
multiple columns, as in a *composite index*.  .cfg file

A metadata file used with the 'InnoDB' *transportable tablespace*
feature.  It is produced by the command 'FLUSH TABLES ... FOR EXPORT',
puts one or more tables in a consistent state that can be copied to
another server.  The '.cfg' file is copied along with the corresponding
*.ibd file*, and used to adjust the internal values of the '.ibd' file,
such as the *space ID*, during the 'ALTER TABLE ... IMPORT TABLESPACE'
step.  change buffer

A special data structure that records changes to *pages* in *secondary
indexes*.  These values could result from SQL *note 'INSERT': insert,
*note 'UPDATE': update, or *note 'DELETE': delete. statements (*DML*).
The set of features involving the change buffer is known collectively as
*change buffering*, consisting of *insert buffering*, *delete
buffering*, and *purge buffering*.

Changes are only recorded in the change buffer when the relevant page
from the secondary index is not in the *buffer pool*.  When the relevant
index page is brought into the buffer pool while associated changes are
still in the change buffer, the changes for that page are applied in the
buffer pool (*merged*) using the data from the change buffer.
Periodically, the *purge* operation that runs during times when the
system is mostly idle, or during a slow shutdown, writes the new index
pages to disk.  The purge operation can write the disk blocks for a
series of index values more efficiently than if each value were written
to disk immediately.

Physically, the change buffer is part of the *system tablespace*, so
that the index changes remain buffered across database restarts.  The
changes are only applied (*merged*) when the pages are brought into the
buffer pool due to some other read operation.

The kinds and amount of data stored in the change buffer are governed by
the 'innodb_change_buffering' and 'innodb_change_buffer_max_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_change_buffer_max_size)
configuration options.  To see information about the current data in the
change buffer, issue the *note 'SHOW ENGINE INNODB STATUS': show-engine.
command.

Formerly known as the *insert buffer*.  change buffering

The general term for the features involving the *change buffer*,
consisting of *insert buffering*, *delete buffering*, and *purge
buffering*.  Index changes resulting from SQL statements, which could
normally involve random I/O operations, are held back and performed
periodically by a background *thread*.  This sequence of operations can
write the disk blocks for a series of index values more efficiently than
if each value were written to disk immediately.  Controlled by the
'innodb_change_buffering' and 'innodb_change_buffer_max_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_change_buffer_max_size)
configuration options.  checkpoint

As changes are made to data pages that are cached in the *buffer pool*,
those changes are written to the *data files* sometime later, a process
known as *flushing*.  The checkpoint is a record of the latest changes
(represented by an *LSN* value) that have been successfully written to
the data files.  checksum

In 'InnoDB', a validation mechanism to detect corruption when a *page*
in a *tablespace* is read from disk into the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool*.
This feature is controlled by the 'innodb_checksums' configuration
option in MySQL 5.5.  'innodb_checksums' is deprecated in MySQL 5.6.3,
replaced by 'innodb_checksum_algorithm'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_checksum_algorithm).

The *note 'innochecksum': innochecksum. command helps diagnose
corruption problems by testing the checksum values for a specified
*tablespace* file while the MySQL server is shut down.

MySQL also uses checksums for replication purposes.  For details, see
the configuration options 'binlog_checksum'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_binlog_checksum),
'master_verify_checksum'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/replication-options-binary-log.html#sysvar_master_verify_checksum),
and 'slave_sql_verify_checksum'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/replication-options-slave.html#sysvar_slave_sql_verify_checksum).
child table

In a *foreign key* relationship, a child table is one whose rows refer
(or point) to rows in another table with an identical value for a
specific column.  This is the table that contains the 'FOREIGN KEY ...
REFERENCES' clause and optionally 'ON UPDATE' and 'ON DELETE' clauses.
The corresponding row in the *parent table* must exist before the row
can be created in the child table.  The values in the child table can
prevent delete or update operations on the parent table, or can cause
automatic deletion or updates in the child table, based on the 'ON
CASCADE' option used when creating the foreign key.  clean page

A *page* in the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool* where all changes made in memory
have also been written (*flushed*) to the data files.  The opposite of a
*dirty page*.  clean shutdown

A *shutdown* that completes without errors and applies all changes to
'InnoDB' tables before finishing, as opposed to a *crash* or a *fast
shutdown*.  Synonym for *slow shutdown*.  client

A type of program that sends requests to a *server*, and interprets or
processes the results.  The client software might run only some of the
time (such as a mail or chat program), and might run interactively (such
as the *note 'mysql': mysql. command processor).  clustered index

The 'InnoDB' term for a *primary key* index.  'InnoDB' table storage is
organized based on the values of the primary key columns, to speed up
queries and sorts involving the primary key columns.  For best
performance, choose the primary key columns carefully based on the most
performance-critical queries.  Because modifying the columns of the
clustered index is an expensive operation, choose primary columns that
are rarely or never updated.

In the Oracle Database product, this type of table is known as an
*index-organized table*.  cold backup

A *backup* taken while the database is shut down.  For busy applications
and websites, this might not be practical, and you might prefer a *warm
backup* or a *hot backup*.  column

A data item within a *row*, whose storage and semantics are defined by a
data type.  Each *table* and *index* is largely defined by the set of
columns it contains.

Each column has a *cardinality* value.  A column can be the *primary
key* for its table, or part of the primary key.  A column can be subject
to a *unique constraint*, a *NOT NULL constraint*, or both.  Values in
different columns, even across different tables, can be linked by a
*foreign key* relationship.

In discussions of MySQL internal operations, sometimes *field* is used
as a synonym.  column index

An *index* on a single column.  column prefix

When an *index* is created with a length specification, such as 'CREATE
INDEX idx ON t1 (c1(N))', only the first N characters of the column
value are stored in the index.  Keeping the index prefix small makes the
index compact, and the memory and disk I/O savings help performance.
(Although making the index prefix too small can hinder query
optimization by making rows with different values appear to the query
optimizer to be duplicates.)

For columns containing binary values or long text strings, where sorting
is not a major consideration and storing the entire value in the index
would waste space, the index automatically uses the first N (typically
768) characters of the value to do lookups and sorts.  commit

A *SQL* statement that ends a *transaction*, making permanent any
changes made by the transaction.  It is the opposite of *rollback*,
which undoes any changes made in the transaction.

'InnoDB' uses an *optimistic* mechanism for commits, so that changes can
be written to the data files before the commit actually occurs.  This
technique makes the commit itself faster, with the tradeoff that more
work is required in case of a rollback.

By default, MySQL uses the *autocommit* setting, which automatically
issues a commit following each SQL statement.  compact row format

The default 'InnoDB' *row format* for 'InnoDB' tables since MySQL 5.0.3.
The *COMPACT* row format provides a more compact representation for
nulls and variable-length columns than the prior default (*REDUNDANT*
row format).

For additional information about 'InnoDB' 'COMPACT' row format, see
*note innodb-row-format::.  composite index

An *index* that includes multiple columns.  compressed backup

The compression feature of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product makes a
compressed copy of each tablespace, changing the extension from '.ibd'
to '.ibz'.  Compressing backup data allows you to keep more backups on
hand, and reduces the time to transfer backups to a different server.
The data is uncompressed during the restore operation.  When a
compressed backup operation processes a table that is already
compressed, it skips the compression step for that table, because
compressing again would result in little or no space savings.

A set of files produced by the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product, where
each *tablespace* is compressed.  The compressed files are renamed with
a '.ibz' file extension.

Applying *compression* at the start of the backup process helps to avoid
storage overhead during the compression process, and to avoid network
overhead when transferring the backup files to another server.  The
process of *applying* the *binary log* takes longer, and requires
uncompressing the backup files.  compressed row format

A *row format* that enables data and index *compression* for 'InnoDB'
tables.  It was introduced in the 'InnoDB' Plugin, available as part of
the *Barracuda* file format.  Large fields are stored away from the page
that holds the rest of the row data, as in *dynamic row format*.  Both
index pages and large fields are compressed, yielding memory and disk
savings.  Depending on the structure of the data, the decrease in memory
and disk usage might or might not outweigh the performance overhead of
uncompressing the data as it is used.  See *note innodb-compression::
for usage details.

For additional information about 'InnoDB' 'COMPRESSED' row format, see
*note innodb-row-format-dynamic::.  compressed table

A table for which the data is stored in compressed form.  For 'InnoDB',
it is a table created with 'ROW_FORMAT=COMPRESSED'.  See *note
innodb-compression:: for more information.  compression

A feature with wide-ranging benefits from using less disk space,
performing less I/O, and using less memory for caching.  'InnoDB' table
and index data can be kept in a compressed format during database
operation.

The data is uncompressed when needed for queries, and re-compressed when
changes are made by *DML* operations.  After you enable compression for
a table, this processing is transparent to users and application
developers.  DBAs can consult 'InnoDB' *note 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA':
information-schema. tables to monitor how efficiently the compression
parameters work for the MySQL instance and for particular compressed
tables.

When 'InnoDB' table data is compressed, the compression applies to the
table itself, any associated index data, and the pages loaded into the
*buffer pool*.  Compression does not apply to pages in the *undo
buffer*.

The table compression feature requires using MySQL 5.5 or higher, or the
InnoDB Plugin in MySQL 5.1 or earlier, and creating the table using the
*Barracuda* file format and *compressed row format*, with the
*innodb_file_per_table* setting enabled.

Compression for each table is influenced by the 'KEY_BLOCK_SIZE' clause
of the *note 'CREATE TABLE': create-table. and *note 'ALTER TABLE':
alter-table. statements.  In MySQL 5.6 and higher, compression is also
affected by the server-wide configuration options
'innodb_compression_failure_threshold_pct'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_compression_failure_threshold_pct),
'innodb_compression_level'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_compression_level),
and 'innodb_compression_pad_pct_max'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_compression_pad_pct_max).
See *note innodb-compression:: for usage details.

Another type of compression is the *compressed backup* feature of the
*MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  compression failure

Not actually an error, rather an expensive operation that can occur when
using *compression* in combination with *DML* operations.  It occurs
when: updates to a compressed *page* overflow the area on the page
reserved for recording modifications; the page is compressed again, with
all changes applied to the table data; the re-compressed data does not
fit on the original page, requiring MySQL to split the data into two new
pages and compress each one separately.  To check the frequency of this
condition, query the *note 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INNODB_CMP':
innodb-cmp-table. table and check how much the value of the
'COMPRESS_OPS' column exceeds the value of the 'COMPRESS_OPS_OK' column.
Ideally, compression failures do not occur often; when they do, you can
adjust the 'innodb_compression_level'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_compression_level),
'innodb_compression_failure_threshold_pct'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_compression_failure_threshold_pct),
and 'innodb_compression_pad_pct_max'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_compression_pad_pct_max)
configuration options.  concatenated indexconcurrency

The ability of multiple operations (in database terminology,
*transactions*) to run simultaneously, without interfering with each
other.  Concurrency is also involved with performance, because ideally
the protection for multiple simultaneous transactions works with a
minimum of performance overhead, using efficient mechanisms for
*locking*.  configuration file

The file that holds the *option* values used by MySQL at startup.
Traditionally, on Linux and Unix this file is named 'my.cnf', and on
Windows it is named 'my.ini'.  You can set a number of options related
to InnoDB under the '[mysqld]' section of the file.

See *note option-files:: for information about where MySQL searches for
configuration files.

When you use the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product, you typically use
two configuration files: one that specifies where the data comes from
and how it is structured (which could be the original configuration file
for your server), and a stripped-down one containing only a small set of
options that specify where the backup data goes and how it is
structured.  The configuration files used with the *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* product must contain certain options that are typically left out
of regular configuration files, so you might need to add options to your
existing configuration file for use with *MySQL Enterprise Backup*.
consistent read

A read operation that uses *snapshot* information to present query
results based on a point in time, regardless of changes performed by
other transactions running at the same time.  If queried data has been
changed by another transaction, the original data is reconstructed based
on the contents of the *undo log*.  This technique avoids some of the
*locking* issues that can reduce *concurrency* by forcing transactions
to wait for other transactions to finish.

With *REPEATABLE READ* *isolation level*, the snapshot is based on the
time when the first read operation is performed.  With *READ COMMITTED*
isolation level, the snapshot is reset to the time of each consistent
read operation.

Consistent read is the default mode in which 'InnoDB' processes 'SELECT'
statements in *READ COMMITTED* and *REPEATABLE READ* isolation levels.
Because a consistent read does not set any locks on the tables it
accesses, other sessions are free to modify those tables while a
consistent read is being performed on the table.

For technical details about the applicable isolation levels, see *note
innodb-consistent-read::.  constraint

An automatic test that can block database changes to prevent data from
becoming inconsistent.  (In computer science terms, a kind of assertion
related to an invariant condition.)  Constraints are a crucial component
of the *ACID* philosophy, to maintain data consistency.  Constraints
supported by MySQL include *FOREIGN KEY constraints* and *unique
constraints*.  counter

A value that is incremented by a particular kind of 'InnoDB' operation.
Useful for measuring how busy a server is, troubleshooting the sources
of performance issues, and testing whether changes (for example, to
configuration settings or indexes used by queries) have the desired
low-level effects.  Different kinds of counters are available through
*Performance Schema* tables and *INFORMATION_SCHEMA* tables,
particularly 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA.INNODB_METRICS'.  covering index

An *index* that includes all the columns retrieved by a query.  Instead
of using the index values as pointers to find the full table rows, the
query returns values from the index structure, saving disk I/O. 'InnoDB'
can apply this optimization technique to more indexes than MyISAM can,
because 'InnoDB' *secondary indexes* also include the *primary key*
columns.  'InnoDB' cannot apply this technique for queries against
tables modified by a transaction, until that transaction ends.

Any *column index* or *composite index* could act as a covering index,
given the right query.  Design your indexes and queries to take
advantage of this optimization technique wherever possible.  CPU-bound

A type of *workload* where the primary *bottleneck* is CPU operations in
memory.  Typically involves read-intensive operations where the results
can all be cached in the *buffer pool*.  crash

MySQL uses the term 'crash' to refer generally to any unexpected
*shutdown* operation where the server cannot do its normal cleanup.  For
example, a crash could happen due to a hardware fault on the database
server machine or storage device; a power failure; a potential data
mismatch that causes the MySQL server to halt; a *fast shutdown*
initiated by the DBA; or many other reasons.  The robust, automatic
*crash recovery* for *InnoDB* tables ensures that data is made
consistent when the server is restarted, without any extra work for the
DBA. crash recovery

The cleanup activities that occur when MySQL is started again after a
*crash*.  For *InnoDB* tables, changes from incomplete transactions are
replayed using data from the *redo log*.  Changes that were *committed*
before the crash, but not yet written into the *data files*, are
reconstructed from the *doublewrite buffer*.  When the database is shut
down normally, this type of activity is performed during shutdown by the
*purge* operation.

During normal operation, committed data can be stored in the *change
buffer* for a period of time before being written to the data files.
There is always a tradeoff between keeping the data files up-to-date,
which introduces performance overhead during normal operation, and
buffering the data, which can make shutdown and crash recovery take
longer.  CRUD

Acronym for 'create, read, update, delete', a common sequence of
operations in database applications.  Often denotes a class of
applications with relatively simple database usage (basic *DDL*, *DML*
and *query* statements in *SQL*) that can be implemented quickly in any
language.  cursor

An internal data structure that is used to represent the result set of a
*query*, or other operation that performs a search using an SQL 'WHERE'
clause.  It works like an iterator in other high-level languages,
producing each value from the result set as requested.

Although SQL usually handles the processing of cursors for you, you
might delve into the inner workings when dealing with
performance-critical code.

data definition languagedata dictionary

Metadata that keeps track of InnoDB-related objects such as *tables*,
*indexes*, and table *columns*.  This metadata is physically located in
the 'InnoDB' *system tablespace*.  For historical reasons, it overlaps
to some degree with information stored in the *.frm files*.

Because the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product always backs up the system
tablespace, all backups include the contents of the data dictionary.
data directory

The directory under which each MySQL *instance* keeps the *data files*
for 'InnoDB' and the directories representing individual databases.
Controlled by the 'datadir' configuration option.  data files

The files that physically contain *table* and *index* data.

The 'InnoDB' *system tablespace*, which holds the 'InnoDB' *data
dictionary* and is capable of holding data for multiple 'InnoDB' tables,
is represented by one or more '.ibdata' data files.

File-per-table tablespaces, which hold data for a single 'InnoDB' table,
are represented by a '.ibd' data file.

General tablespaces (introduced in MySQL 5.7.6), which can hold data for
multiple 'InnoDB' tables, are also represented by a '.ibd' data file.
data manipulation languagedata warehouse

A database system or application that primarily runs large *queries*.
The read-only or read-mostly data might be organized in *denormalized*
form for query efficiency.  Can benefit from the optimizations for
*read-only transactions* in MySQL 5.6 and higher.  Contrast with *OLTP*.
database

Within the MySQL *data directory*, each database is represented by a
separate directory.  The InnoDB *system tablespace*, which can hold
table data from multiple databases within a MySQL *instance*, is kept in
*data files* that reside outside of individual database directories.
When *file-per-table* mode is enabled, the *.ibd files* representing
individual InnoDB tables are stored inside the database directories
unless created elsewhere using the 'DATA DIRECTORY' clause.  General
tablespaces, introduced in MySQL 5.7.6, also hold table data in *.ibd
files*.  Unlike file-per-table *.ibd files*, general tablespace *.ibd
files* can hold table data from multiple databases within a MySQL
*instance*, and can be assigned to directories relative to or
independent of the MySQL data directory.

For long-time MySQL users, a database is a familiar notion.  Users
coming from an Oracle Database background will find that the MySQL
meaning of a database is closer to what Oracle Database calls a
*schema*.  DCL

Data control language, a set of *SQL* statements for managing
privileges.  In MySQL, consists of the *note 'GRANT': grant. and *note
'REVOKE': revoke. statements.  Contrast with *DDL* and *DML*. DDL

Data definition language, a set of *SQL* statements for manipulating the
database itself rather than individual table rows.  Includes all forms
of the 'CREATE', 'ALTER', and 'DROP' statements.  Also includes the
'TRUNCATE' statement, because it works differently than a 'DELETE FROM
TABLE_NAME' statement, even though the ultimate effect is similar.

DDL statements automatically *commit* the current *transaction*; they
cannot be *rolled back*.

The 'InnoDB' online DDL feature enhances performance for *note 'CREATE
INDEX': create-index, *note 'DROP INDEX': drop-index, and many types of
*note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. operations.  See InnoDB and Online DDL
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-online-ddl.html) for
more information.  Also, the 'InnoDB' file-per-table setting can affect
the behavior of *note 'DROP TABLE': drop-table. and *note 'TRUNCATE
TABLE': truncate-table. operations.

Contrast with *DML* and *DCL*. deadlock

A situation where different *transactions* are unable to proceed,
because each holds a *lock* that the other needs.  Because both
transactions are waiting for a resource to become available, neither
will ever release the locks it holds.

A deadlock can occur when the transactions lock rows in multiple tables
(through statements such as 'UPDATE' or 'SELECT ... FOR UPDATE'), but in
the opposite order.  A deadlock can also occur when such statements lock
ranges of index records and *gaps*, with each transaction acquiring some
locks but not others due to a timing issue.

For background information on how deadlocks are automatically detected
and handled, see *note innodb-deadlock-detection::.  For tips on
avoiding and recovering from deadlock conditions, see *note
innodb-deadlocks-handling::.  deadlock detection

A mechanism that automatically detects when a *deadlock* occurs, and
automatically *rolls back* one of the *transactions* involved (the
*victim*).  delete

When 'InnoDB' processes a 'DELETE' statement, the rows are immediately
marked for deletion and no longer are returned by queries.  The storage
is reclaimed sometime later, during the periodic garbage collection
known as the *purge* operation.  For removing large quantities of data,
related operations with their own performance characteristics are
*TRUNCATE* and *DROP*. delete buffering

The technique of storing changes to secondary index pages, resulting
from 'DELETE' operations, in the *change buffer* rather than writing the
changes immediately, so that the physical writes can be performed to
minimize random I/O. (Because delete operations are a two-step process,
this operation buffers the write that normally marks an index record for
deletion.)  It is one of the types of *change buffering*; the others are
*insert buffering* and *purge buffering*.  denormalized

A data storage strategy that duplicates data across different tables,
rather than linking the tables with *foreign keys* and *join* queries.
Typically used in *data warehouse* applications, where the data is not
updated after loading.  In such applications, query performance is more
important than making it simple to maintain consistent data during
updates.  Contrast with *normalized*.  descending index

A type of *index* available with some database systems, where index
storage is optimized to process 'ORDER BY COLUMN DESC' clauses.
Currently, although MySQL allows the 'DESC' keyword in the *note 'CREATE
TABLE': create-table. statement, it does not use any special storage
layout for the resulting index.  dirty page

A *page* in the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool* that has been updated in memory,
where the changes are not yet written (*flushed*) to the *data files*.
The opposite of a *clean page*.  dirty read

An operation that retrieves unreliable data, data that was updated by
another transaction but not yet *committed*.  It is only possible with
the *isolation level* known as *read uncommitted*.

This kind of operation does not adhere to the *ACID* principle of
database design.  It is considered very risky, because the data could be
*rolled back*, or updated further before being committed; then, the
transaction doing the dirty read would be using data that was never
confirmed as accurate.

Its opposite is *consistent read*, where 'InnoDB' ensures that a
transaction does not read information updated by another transaction,
even if the other transaction commits in the meantime.  disk-based

A kind of database that primarily organizes data on disk storage (hard
drives or equivalent).  Data is brought back and forth between disk and
memory to be operated upon.  It is the opposite of an *in-memory
database*.  Although 'InnoDB' is disk-based, it also contains features
such as he *buffer pool*, multiple buffer pool instances, and the
*adaptive hash index* that allow certain kinds of workloads to work
primarily from memory.  disk-bound

A type of *workload* where the primary *bottleneck* is disk I/O. (Also
known as *I/O-bound*.)  Typically involves frequent writes to disk, or
random reads of more data than can fit into the *buffer pool*.  DML

Data manipulation language, a set of *SQL* statements for performing
*note 'INSERT': insert, *note 'UPDATE': update, and *note 'DELETE':
delete. operations.  The *note 'SELECT': select. statement is sometimes
considered as a DML statement, because the 'SELECT ... FOR UPDATE' form
is subject to the same considerations for *locking* as *note 'INSERT':
insert, *note 'UPDATE': update, and *note 'DELETE': delete.

DML statements for an 'InnoDB' table operate in the context of a
*transaction*, so their effects can be *committed* or *rolled back* as a
single unit.

Contrast with *DDL* and *DCL*. document id

In the 'InnoDB' *full-text search* feature, a special column in the
table containing the *FULLTEXT index*, to uniquely identify the document
associated with each *ilist* value.  Its name is 'FTS_DOC_ID' (uppercase
required).  The column itself must be of 'BIGINT UNSIGNED NOT NULL'
type, with a unique index named 'FTS_DOC_ID_INDEX'.  Preferably, you
define this column when creating the table.  If 'InnoDB' must add the
column to the table while creating a 'FULLTEXT' index, the indexing
operation is considerably more expensive.  doublewrite buffer

'InnoDB' uses a file flush technique called doublewrite.  Before writing
*pages* to the *data files*, 'InnoDB' first writes them to a contiguous
area called the doublewrite buffer.  Only after the write and the flush
to the doublewrite buffer have completed, does 'InnoDB' write the pages
to their proper positions in the data file.  If there is an operating
system, storage subsystem, or *note 'mysqld': mysqld. process crash in
the middle of a page write, 'InnoDB' can later find a good copy of the
page from the doublewrite buffer during *crash recovery*.

Although data is always written twice, the doublewrite buffer does not
require twice as much I/O overhead or twice as many I/O operations.
Data is written to the buffer itself as a large sequential chunk, with a
single 'fsync()' call to the operating system.

To turn off the doublewrite buffer, specify the option
'innodb_doublewrite=0'.  drop

A kind of *DDL* operation that removes a schema object, through a
statement such as *note 'DROP TABLE': drop-table. or *note 'DROP INDEX':
drop-index.  It maps internally to an *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table.
statement.  From an 'InnoDB' perspective, the performance considerations
of such operations involve the time that the *data dictionary* is locked
to ensure that interrelated objects are all updated, and the time to
update memory structures such as the *buffer pool*.  For a *table*, the
drop operation has somewhat different characteristics than a *truncate*
operation (*note 'TRUNCATE TABLE': truncate-table. statement).  dynamic
row format

A row format introduced in the 'InnoDB' Plugin, available as part of the
*Barracuda* *file format*.  Because long variable-length column values
are stored outside of the page that holds the row data, it is very
efficient for rows that include large objects.  Since the large fields
are typically not accessed to evaluate query conditions, they are not
brought into the *buffer pool* as often, resulting in fewer I/O
operations and better utilization of cache memory.

As of MySQL 5.7.9, the default row format is defined by
'innodb_default_row_format'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_default_row_format),
which has a default value of 'DYNAMIC'.

For additional information about 'InnoDB' 'DYNAMIC' row format, see
*note innodb-row-format-dynamic::.

early adopter

A stage similar to *beta*, when a software product is typically
evaluated for performance, functionality, and compatibility in a
non-mission-critical setting.  error log

A type of *log* showing information about MySQL startup and critical
runtime errors and *crash* information.  For details, see *note
error-log::.  eviction

The process of removing an item from a cache or other temporary storage
area, such as the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool*.  Often, but not always, uses
the *LRU* algorithm to determine which item to remove.  When a *dirty
page* is evicted, its contents are *flushed* to disk, and any dirty
*neighbor pages* might be flushed also.  exclusive lock

A kind of *lock* that prevents any other *transaction* from locking the
same row.  Depending on the transaction *isolation level*, this kind of
lock might block other transactions from writing to the same row, or
might also block other transactions from reading the same row.  The
default 'InnoDB' isolation level, *REPEATABLE READ*, enables higher
*concurrency* by allowing transactions to read rows that have exclusive
locks, a technique known as *consistent read*.  extent

A group of *pages* within a *tablespace*.  For the default *page size*
of 16KB, an extent contains 64 pages.  In MySQL 5.6, the page size for
an 'InnoDB' instance can be 4KB, 8KB, or 16KB, controlled by the
'innodb_page_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_page_size)
configuration option.  For 4KB, 8KB, and 16KB pages sizes, the extent
size is always 1MB (or 1048576 bytes).

Support for 32KB and 64KB 'InnoDB' page sizes was added in MySQL 5.7.6.
For a 32KB page size, the extent size is 2MB. For a 64KB page size, the
extent size is 4MB.

'InnoDB' features such as *segments*, *read-ahead* requests and the
*doublewrite buffer* use I/O operations that read, write, allocate, or
free data one extent at a time.

Fast Index Creation

A capability first introduced in the InnoDB Plugin, now part of MySQL in
5.5 and higher, that speeds up creation of 'InnoDB' *secondary indexes*
by avoiding the need to completely rewrite the associated table.  The
speedup applies to dropping secondary indexes also.

Because index maintenance can add performance overhead to many data
transfer operations, consider doing operations such as 'ALTER TABLE ...
ENGINE=INNODB' or 'INSERT INTO ... SELECT * FROM ...' without any
secondary indexes in place, and creating the indexes afterward.

In MySQL 5.6, this feature becomes more general.  You can read and write
to tables while an index is being created, and many more kinds of *note
'ALTER TABLE': alter-table. operations can be performed without copying
the table, without blocking *DML* operations, or both.  Thus in MySQL
5.6 and higher, this set of features is referred to as *online DDL*
rather than Fast Index Creation.

For related information, see *note innodb-create-index::, and InnoDB and
Online DDL
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-online-ddl.html).  fast
shutdown

The default *shutdown* procedure for 'InnoDB', based on the
configuration setting 'innodb_fast_shutdown=1'.  To save time, certain
*flush* operations are skipped.  This type of shutdown is safe during
normal usage, because the flush operations are performed during the next
startup, using the same mechanism as in *crash recovery*.  In cases
where the database is being shut down for an upgrade or downgrade, do a
*slow shutdown* instead to ensure that all relevant changes are applied
to the *data files* during the shutdown.  file format

The file format for 'InnoDB' tables, enabled using the
'innodb_file_format' configuration option.  Supported file formats are
*Antelope* and *Barracuda*.  Antelope is the original 'InnoDB' file
format and supports the *REDUNDANT* and *COMPACT* row formats.
Barracuda is the newer 'InnoDB' file format and supports the
*COMPRESSED* and *DYNAMIC* row formats.  file-per-table

A general name for the setting controlled by the 'innodb_file_per_table'
option, which is an important configuration option that affects aspects
of 'InnoDB' file storage, availability of features, and I/O
characteristics.  As of MySQL 5.6.7, 'innodb_file_per_table' is enabled
by default.

With the 'innodb_file_per_table' option enabled, you can create a table
in its own *.ibd file* rather than in the shared *ibdata files* of the
*system tablespace*.  When table data is stored in an individual *.ibd
file*, you have more flexibility to choose *row formats* required for
features such as data *compression*.  The 'TRUNCATE TABLE' operation is
also faster, and reclaimed space can be used by the operating system
rather than remaining reserved for 'InnoDB'.

The *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product is more flexible for tables that
are in their own files.  For example, tables can be excluded from a
backup, but only if they are in separate files.  Thus, this setting is
suitable for tables that are backed up less frequently or on a different
schedule.  fill factor

In an 'InnoDB' *index*, the proportion of a *page* that is taken up by
index data before the page is split.  The unused space when index data
is first divided between pages allows for rows to be updated with longer
string values without requiring expensive index maintenance operations.
If the fill factor is too low, the index consumes more space than
needed, causing extra I/O overhead when reading the index.  If the fill
factor is too high, any update that increases the length of column
values can cause extra I/O overhead for index maintenance.  See *note
innodb-physical-structure:: for more information.  fixed row format

This row format is used by the 'MyISAM' storage engine, not by 'InnoDB'.
If you create an 'InnoDB' table with the option 'ROW_FORMAT=FIXED' in
MySQL 5.7.6 or earlier, 'InnoDB' uses the *compact row format* instead,
although the 'FIXED' value might still show up in output such as 'SHOW
TABLE STATUS' reports.  As of MySQL 5.7.7, 'InnoDB' returns an error if
'ROW_FORMAT=FIXED' is specified.  flush

To write changes to the database files, that had been buffered in a
memory area or a temporary disk storage area.  The 'InnoDB' storage
structures that are periodically flushed include the *redo log*, the
*undo log*, and the *buffer pool*.

Flushing can happen because a memory area becomes full and the system
needs to free some space, because a *commit* operation means the changes
from a transaction can be finalized, or because a *slow shutdown*
operation means that all outstanding work should be finalized.  When it
is not critical to flush all the buffered data at once, 'InnoDB' can use
a technique called *fuzzy checkpointing* to flush small batches of pages
to spread out the I/O overhead.  flush list

An internal 'InnoDB' data structure that tracks *dirty pages* in the
*buffer pool*: that is, *pages* that have been changed and need to be
written back out to disk.  This data structure is updated frequently by
'InnoDB' internal *mini-transactions*, and so is protected by its own
*mutex* to allow concurrent access to the buffer pool.  foreign key

A type of pointer relationship, between rows in separate 'InnoDB'
tables.  The foreign key relationship is defined on one column in both
the *parent table* and the *child table*.

In addition to enabling fast lookup of related information, foreign keys
help to enforce *referential integrity*, by preventing any of these
pointers from becoming invalid as data is inserted, updated, and
deleted.  This enforcement mechanism is a type of *constraint*.  A row
that points to another table cannot be inserted if the associated
foreign key value does not exist in the other table.  If a row is
deleted or its foreign key value changed, and rows in another table
point to that foreign key value, the foreign key can be set up to
prevent the deletion, cause the corresponding column values in the other
table to become *null*, or automatically delete the corresponding rows
in the other table.

One of the stages in designing a *normalized* database is to identify
data that is duplicated, separate that data into a new table, and set up
a foreign key relationship so that the multiple tables can be queried
like a single table, using a *join* operation.  FOREIGN KEY constraint

The type of *constraint* that maintains database consistency through a
*foreign key* relationship.  Like other kinds of constraints, it can
prevent data from being inserted or updated if data would become
inconsistent; in this case, the inconsistency being prevented is between
data in multiple tables.  Alternatively, when a *DML* operation is
performed, 'FOREIGN KEY' constraints can cause data in *child rows* to
be deleted, changed to different values, or set to *null*, based on the
'ON CASCADE' option specified when creating the foreign key.  .frm file

A file containing the metadata, such as the table definition, of a MySQL
table.

For backups, you must always keep the full set of '.frm' files along
with the backup data to be able to restore tables that are altered or
dropped after the backup.

Although each 'InnoDB' table has a '.frm' file, 'InnoDB' maintains its
own table metadata in the *system tablespace*; the '.frm' files are not
needed for 'InnoDB' to operate on 'InnoDB' tables.

'.frm' files are backed up by the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.
These files must not be modified by an *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table.
operation while the backup is taking place, which is why backups that
include non-'InnoDB' tables perform a 'FLUSH TABLES WITH READ LOCK'
operation to freeze such activity while backing up '.frm' files.
Restoring a backup can result in '.frm' files being created, changed, or
removed to match the state of the database at the time of the backup.
FTS

In most contexts, an acronym for *full-text search*.  Sometimes in
performance discussions, an acronym for *full table scan*.  full backup

A *backup* that includes all the *tables* in each MySQL *database*, and
all the databases in a MySQL *instance*.  Contrast with *partial
backup*.  full table scan

An operation that requires reading the entire contents of a table,
rather than just selected portions using an *index*.  Typically
performed either with small lookup tables, or in data warehousing
situations with large tables where all available data is aggregated and
analyzed.  How frequently these operations occur, and the sizes of the
tables relative to available memory, have implications for the
algorithms used in query optimization and managing the *buffer pool*.

The purpose of indexes is to allow lookups for specific values or ranges
of values within a large table, thus avoiding full table scans when
practical.  full-text search

The MySQL feature for finding words, phrases, Boolean combinations of
words, and so on within table data, in a faster, more convenient, and
more flexible way than using the SQL 'LIKE' operator or writing your own
application-level search algorithm.  It uses the SQL function 'MATCH()'
and *FULLTEXT indexes*.  FULLTEXT index

The special kind of *index* that holds the *search index* in the MySQL
*full-text search* mechanism.  Represents the words from values of a
column, omitting any that are specified as *stopwords*.  Originally,
only available for 'MyISAM' tables.  Starting in MySQL 5.6.4, it is also
available for *InnoDB* tables.  fuzzy checkpointing

A technique that *flushes* small batches of *dirty pages* from the
*buffer pool*, rather than flushing all dirty pages at once which would
disrupt database processing.

GA

'Generally available', the stage when a software product leaves *beta*
and is available for sale, official support, and production use.  gap

A place in an 'InnoDB' *index* data structure where new values could be
inserted.  When you lock a set of rows with a statement such as 'SELECT
... FOR UPDATE', 'InnoDB' can create locks that apply to the gaps as
well as the actual values in the index.  For example, if you select all
values greater than 10 for update, a gap lock prevents another
transaction from inserting a new value that is greater than 10.  The
*supremum record* and *infimum record* represent the gaps containing all
values greater than or less than all the current index values.  gap lock

A *lock* on a *gap* between index records, or a lock on the gap before
the first or after the last index record.  For example, 'SELECT c1 FROM
t WHERE c1 BETWEEN 10 and 20 FOR UPDATE;' prevents other transactions
from inserting a value of 15 into the column 't.c1', whether or not
there was already any such value in the column, because the gaps between
all existing values in the range are locked.  Contrast with *record
lock* and *next-key lock*.

Gap locks are part of the tradeoff between performance and
*concurrency*, and are used in some transaction *isolation levels* and
not others.  general loggeneral query log

A type of *log* used for diagnosis and troubleshooting of SQL statements
processed by the MySQL server.  Can be stored in a file or in a database
table.  You must enable this feature through the 'general_log'
configuration option to use it.  You can disable it for a specific
connection through the 'sql_log_off' configuration option.

Records a broader range of queries than the *slow query log*.  Unlike
the *binary log*, which is used for replication, the general query log
contains *note 'SELECT': select. statements and does not maintain strict
ordering.  For more information, see *note query-log::.  general
tablespace

A shared 'InnoDB' *tablespace* created using *note 'CREATE TABLESPACE':
create-tablespace. syntax.  General tablespaces can be created outside
of the MySQL data directory, are capable of holding multiple *tables*,
and support tables of all row formats.  General tablespaces were
introduced in MySQL 5.7.6.

Tables are added to a general tablespace using *note 'CREATE TABLE
TBL_NAME ... TABLESPACE [=] TABLESPACE_NAME': create-table. or *note
'ALTER TABLE TBL_NAME TABLESPACE [=] TABLESPACE_NAME': alter-table.
syntax.

Contrast with *system tablespace* and *file-per-table* tablespace.

For more information, see General Tablespaces
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/general-tablespaces.html).
global transaction

A type of *transaction* involved in *XA* operations.  It consists of
several actions that are transactional in themselves, but that all must
either complete successfully as a group, or all be rolled back as a
group.  In essence, this extends *ACID* properties 'up a level' so that
multiple ACID transactions can be executed in concert as components of a
global operation that also has ACID properties.  group commit

An 'InnoDB' optimization that performs some low-level I/O operations
(log write) once for a set of *commit* operations, rather than flushing
and syncing separately for each commit.

hash index

A type of *index* intended for queries that use equality operators,
rather than range operators such as greater-than or 'BETWEEN'.  It is
available for *note 'MEMORY': memory-storage-engine. tables.  Although
hash indexes are the default for *note 'MEMORY': memory-storage-engine.
tables for historic reasons, that storage engine also supports *B-tree*
indexes, which are often a better choice for general-purpose queries.

MySQL includes a variant of this index type, the *adaptive hash index*,
that is constructed automatically for *note 'InnoDB':
innodb-storage-engine. tables if needed based on runtime conditions.
HDD

Acronym for 'hard disk drive'.  Refers to storage media using spinning
platters, usually when comparing and contrasting with *SSD*. Its
performance characteristics can influence the throughput of a
*disk-based* workload.  heartbeat

A periodic message that is sent to indicate that a system is functioning
properly.  In a *replication* context, if the *master* stops sending
such messages, one of the *slaves* can take its place.  Similar
techniques can be used between the servers in a cluster environment, to
confirm that all of them are operating properly.  high-water mark

A value representing an upper limit, either a hard limit that should not
be exceeded at runtime, or a record of the maximum value that was
actually reached.  Contrast with *low-water mark*.  history list

A list of *transactions* with delete-marked records scheduled to be
processed by the 'InnoDB' *purge* operation.  Recorded in the *undo
log*.  The length of the history list is reported by the command 'SHOW
ENGINE INNODB STATUS'.  If the history list grows longer than the value
of the 'innodb_max_purge_lag' configuration option, each *DML* operation
is delayed slightly to allow the purge operation to finish *flushing*
the deleted records.

Also known as *purge lag*.  hole punching

Releasing empty blocks from a page.  The 'InnoDB' *transparent page
compression* feature relies on hole punching support.  For more
information, see InnoDB Page Compression
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-page-compression.html).
hot

A condition where a row, table, or internal data structure is accessed
so frequently, requiring some form of locking or mutual exclusion, that
it results in a performance or scalability issue.

Although 'hot' typically indicates an undesirable condition, a *hot
backup* is the preferred type of backup.  hot backup

A backup taken while the database is running and applications are
reading and writing to it.  The backup involves more than simply copying
data files: it must include any data that was inserted or updated while
the backup was in process; it must exclude any data that was deleted
while the backup was in process; and it must ignore any changes that
were not committed.

The Oracle product that performs hot backups, of 'InnoDB' tables
especially but also tables from 'MyISAM' and other storage engines, is
known as *MySQL Enterprise Backup*.

The hot backup process consists of two stages.  The initial copying of
the data files produces a *raw backup*.  The *apply* step incorporates
any changes to the database that happened while the backup was running.
Applying the changes produces a *prepared* backup; these files are ready
to be restored whenever necessary.

I/O-boundib-file set

The set of files managed by 'InnoDB' within a MySQL database: the
*system tablespace*, *file-per-table* tablespace files, and *redo log*
files.  Depending on MySQL version and 'InnoDB' configuration, may also
include *general tablespace*, *temporary tablespace*, and *undo
tablespace* files.  This term is sometimes used in detailed discussions
of 'InnoDB' file structures and formats to refer to the set of files
managed by 'InnoDB' within a MySQL database.  ib_logfile

A set of files, typically named 'ib_logfile0' and 'ib_logfile1', that
form the *redo log*.  Also sometimes referred to as the *log group*.
These files record statements that attempt to change data in 'InnoDB'
tables.  These statements are replayed automatically to correct data
written by incomplete transactions, on startup following a crash.

This data cannot be used for manual recovery; for that type of
operation, use the *binary log*.  ibbackup_logfile

A supplemental backup file created by the *MySQL Enterprise Backup*
product during a *hot backup* operation.  It contains information about
any data changes that occurred while the backup was running.  The
initial backup files, including 'ibbackup_logfile', are known as a *raw
backup*, because the changes that occurred during the backup operation
are not yet incorporated.  After you perform the *apply* step to the raw
backup files, the resulting files do include those final data changes,
and are known as a *prepared backup*.  At this stage, the
'ibbackup_logfile' file is no longer necessary.  .ibd file

The data file for *file-per-table* tablespaces and general tablespaces.
File-per-table tablespace '.ibd' files contain a single table and
associated index data.  *General tablespace* '.ibd' files may contain
table and index data for multiple tables.  General tablespaces were
introduced in MySQL 5.7.6.

The '.ibd' file extension does not apply to the *system tablespace*,
which consists of one or more *ibdata files*.

If a file-per-table tablespace or general tablespace is created with the
'DATA DIRECTORY =' clause, the '.ibd' file is located at the specified
path, outside the normal data directory, and is pointed to by a *.isl
file*.

When a '.ibd' file is included in a compressed backup by the *MySQL
Enterprise Backup* product, the compressed equivalent is a '.ibz' file.
ibdata file

A set of files with names such as 'ibdata1', 'ibdata2', and so on, that
make up the InnoDB *system tablespace*.  These files contain metadata
about 'InnoDB' tables, (the 'InnoDB' *data dictionary*), and the storage
areas for one or more *undo logs*, the *change buffer*, and the
*doublewrite buffer*.  They also can contain some or all of the table
data also (depending on whether the *file-per-table* mode is in effect
when each table is created).  When the *innodb_file_per_table* option is
enabled, data and indexes for newly created tables are stored in
separate *.ibd files* rather than in the system tablespace.

The growth of the 'ibdata' files is influenced by the
'innodb_autoextend_increment' configuration option.  ibtmp file

The 'InnoDB' *temporary tablespace* *data file* for non-compressed
'InnoDB' *temporary tables* and related objects.  The configuration file
option, 'innodb_temp_data_file_path'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_temp_data_file_path),
allows users to define a relative path for the temporary tablespace data
file.  If 'innodb_temp_data_file_path'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_temp_data_file_path)
is not specified, the default behavior is to create a single
auto-extending 12MB data file named 'ibtmp1' in the data directory,
alongside 'ibdata1'.  .ibz file

When the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product performs a *compressed
backup*, it transforms each *tablespace* file that is created using the
*file-per-table* setting from a '.ibd' extension to a '.ibz' extension.

The compression applied during backup is distinct from the *compressed
row format* that keeps table data compressed during normal operation.  A
compressed backup operation skips the compression step for a tablespace
that is already in compressed row format, as compressing a second time
would slow down the backup but produce little or no space savings.
ilist

Within an 'InnoDB' *FULLTEXT index*, the data structure consisting of a
document ID and positional information for a token (that is, a
particular word).  implicit row lock

A row lock that 'InnoDB' acquires to ensure consistency, without you
specifically requesting it.  in-memory database

A type of database system that maintains data in memory, to avoid
overhead due to disk I/O and translation between disk blocks and memory
areas.  Some in-memory databases sacrifice durability (the 'D' in the
*ACID* design philosophy) and are vulnerable to hardware, power, and
other types of failures, making them more suitable for read-only
operations.  Other in-memory databases do use durability mechanisms such
as logging changes to disk or using non-volatile memory.

MySQL features that address the same kinds of memory-intensive
processing include the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool*, *adaptive hash index*,
and *read-only transaction* optimization, the *note 'MEMORY':
memory-storage-engine. storage engine, the 'MyISAM' key cache, and the
MySQL query cache.  incremental backup

A type of *hot backup*, performed by the *MySQL Enterprise Backup*
product, that only saves data changed since some point in time.  Having
a full backup and a succession of incremental backups lets you
reconstruct backup data over a long period, without the storage overhead
of keeping several full backups on hand.  You can restore the full
backup and then apply each of the incremental backups in succession, or
you can keep the full backup up-to-date by applying each incremental
backup to it, then perform a single restore operation.

The granularity of changed data is at the *page* level.  A page might
actually cover more than one row.  Each changed page is included in the
backup.  index

A data structure that provides a fast lookup capability for *rows* of a
*table*, typically by forming a tree structure (*B-tree)* representing
all the values of a particular *column* or set of columns.

'InnoDB' tables always have a *clustered index* representing the
*primary key*.  They can also have one or more *secondary indexes*
defined on one or more columns.  Depending on their structure, secondary
indexes can be classified as *partial*, *column*, or *composite*
indexes.

Indexes are a crucial aspect of *query* performance.  Database
architects design tables, queries, and indexes to allow fast lookups for
data needed by applications.  The ideal database design uses a *covering
index* where practical; the query results are computed entirely from the
index, without reading the actual table data.  Each *foreign key*
constraint also requires an index, to efficiently check whether values
exist in both the *parent* and *child* tables.

Although a B-tree index is the most common, a different kind of data
structure is used for *hash indexes*, as in the 'MEMORY' storage engine
and the 'InnoDB' *adaptive hash index*.  *R-tree* indexes are used for
spatial indexing of multi-dimensional information.  index cache

A memory area that holds the token data for 'InnoDB' *full-text search*.
It buffers the data to minimize disk I/O when data is inserted or
updated in columns that are part of a *FULLTEXT index*.  The token data
is written to disk when the index cache becomes full.  Each 'InnoDB'
'FULLTEXT' index has its own separate index cache, whose size is
controlled by the configuration option 'innodb_ft_cache_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_ft_cache_size).
index condition pushdown

Index condition pushdown (ICP) is an optimization that pushes part of a
'WHERE' condition down to the storage engine if parts of the condition
can be evaluated using fields from the *index*.  ICP can reduce the
number of times the *storage engine* must access the base table and the
number of times the MySQL server must access the storage engine.  For
more information, see Index Condition Pushdown Optimization
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/index-condition-pushdown-optimization.html).
index hint

Extended SQL syntax for overriding the *indexes* recommended by the
optimizer.  For example, the 'FORCE INDEX', 'USE INDEX', and 'IGNORE
INDEX' clauses.  Typically used when indexed columns have unevenly
distributed values, resulting in inaccurate *cardinality* estimates.
index prefix

In an *index* that applies to multiple columns (known as a *composite
index*), the initial or leading columns of the index.  A query that
references the first 1, 2, 3, and so on columns of a composite index can
use the index, even if the query does not reference all the columns in
the index.  index statisticsinfimum record

A *pseudo-record* in an *index*, representing the *gap* below the
smallest value in that index.  If a transaction has a statement such as
'SELECT ... FROM ... WHERE col < 10 FOR UPDATE;', and the smallest value
in the column is 5, it is a lock on the infimum record that prevents
other transactions from inserting even smaller values such as 0, -10,
and so on.  INFORMATION_SCHEMA

The name of the *database* that provides a query interface to the MySQL
*data dictionary*.  (This name is defined by the ANSI SQL standard.)  To
examine information (metadata) about the database, you can query tables
such as 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES' and 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA.COLUMNS',
rather than using 'SHOW' commands that produce unstructured output.

The 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA' database also contains tables specific to
*InnoDB* that provide a query interface to the 'InnoDB' data dictionary.
You use these tables not to see how the database is structured, but to
get real-time information about the workings of 'InnoDB' tables to help
with performance monitoring, tuning, and troubleshooting.  InnoDB

A MySQL component that combines high performance with *transactional*
capability for reliability, robustness, and concurrent access.  It
embodies the *ACID* design philosophy.  Represented as a *storage
engine*; it handles tables created or altered with the 'ENGINE=INNODB'
clause.  See *note innodb-storage-engine:: for architectural details and
administration procedures, and *note optimizing-innodb:: for performance
advice.

In MySQL 5.5 and higher, 'InnoDB' is the default storage engine for new
tables and the 'ENGINE=INNODB' clause is not required.

'InnoDB' tables are ideally suited for *hot backups*.  See *note
mysql-enterprise-backup:: for information about the *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* product for backing up MySQL servers without interrupting normal
processing.  innodb_autoinc_lock_mode

The 'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode' option controls the algorithm used for
*auto-increment locking*.  When you have an auto-incrementing *primary
key*, you can use statement-based replication only with the setting
'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=1'.  This setting is known as _consecutive_
lock mode, because multi-row inserts within a transaction receive
consecutive auto-increment values.  If you have
'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2', which allows higher concurrency for insert
operations, use row-based replication rather than statement-based
replication.  This setting is known as _interleaved_ lock mode, because
multiple multi-row insert statements running at the same time can
receive *auto-increment* values that are interleaved.  The setting
'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=0' should not be used except for compatibility
purposes.

Consecutive lock mode ('innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=1') is the default
setting prior to MySQL 8.0.3.  As of MySQL 8.0.3, interleaved lock mode
('innodb_autoinc_lock_mode=2') is the default, which reflects the change
from statement-based to row-based replication as the default replication
type.  innodb_file_format

The 'innodb_file_format' option defines the *file format* to use for new
'InnoDB' file-per-table *tablespaces*.  Currently, you can specify the
*Antelope* and *Barracuda* file formats.  innodb_file_per_table

An important configuration option that affects many aspects of 'InnoDB'
file storage, availability of features, and I/O characteristics.  In
MySQL 5.6.7 and higher, it is enabled by default.  The
'innodb_file_per_table' option turns on *file-per-table* mode.  With
this mode enabled, a newly created 'InnoDB' table and associated indexes
can be stored in a file-per-table *.ibd file*, outside the *system
tablespace*.

This option affects the performance and storage considerations for a
number of SQL statements, such as *note 'DROP TABLE': drop-table. and
*note 'TRUNCATE TABLE': truncate-table.

Enabling the 'innodb_file_per_table' option allows you to take advantage
of features such as table *compression* and named-table backups in
*MySQL Enterprise Backup*.

For more information, see 'innodb_file_per_table', and *note
innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces::.  innodb_lock_wait_timeout

The 'innodb_lock_wait_timeout' option sets the balance between *waiting*
for shared resources to become available, or giving up and handling the
error, retrying, or doing alternative processing in your application.
Rolls back any 'InnoDB' transaction that waits more than a specified
time to acquire a *lock*.  Especially useful if *deadlocks* are caused
by updates to multiple tables controlled by different storage engines;
such deadlocks are not *detected* automatically.  innodb_strict_mode

The 'innodb_strict_mode' option controls whether 'InnoDB' operates in
*strict mode*, where conditions that are normally treated as warnings,
cause errors instead (and the underlying statements fail).  insert

One of the primary *DML* operations in *SQL*. The performance of inserts
is a key factor in *data warehouse* systems that load millions of rows
into tables, and *OLTP* systems where many concurrent connections might
insert rows into the same table, in arbitrary order.  If insert
performance is important to you, you should learn about *InnoDB*
features such as the *insert buffer* used in *change buffering*, and
*auto-increment* columns.  insert buffer

The former name of the *change buffer*.  In MySQL 5.5, support was added
for buffering changes to secondary index pages for *note 'DELETE':
delete. and *note 'UPDATE': update. operations.  Previously, only
changes resulting from *note 'INSERT': insert. operations were buffered.
The preferred term is now _change buffer_.  insert buffering

The technique of storing changes to secondary index pages, resulting
from *note 'INSERT': insert. operations, in the *change buffer* rather
than writing the changes immediately, so that the physical writes can be
performed to minimize random I/O. It is one of the types of *change
buffering*; the others are *delete buffering* and *purge buffering*.

Insert buffering is not used if the secondary index is *unique*, because
the uniqueness of new values cannot be verified before the new entries
are written out.  Other kinds of change buffering do work for unique
indexes.  insert intention lock

A type of *gap lock* that is set by *note 'INSERT': insert. operations
prior to row insertion.  This type of *lock* signals the intent to
insert in such a way that multiple transactions inserting into the same
index gap need not wait for each other if they are not inserting at the
same position within the gap.  For more information, see *note
innodb-locking::.  instance

A single *mysqld* daemon managing a *data directory* representing one or
more *databases* with a set of *tables*.  It is common in development,
testing, and some *replication* scenarios to have multiple instances on
the same *server* machine, each managing its own data directory and
listening on its own port or socket.  With one instance running a
*disk-bound* workload, the server might still have extra CPU and memory
capacity to run additional instances.  instrumentation

Modifications at the source code level to collect performance data for
tuning and debugging.  In MySQL, data collected by instrumentation is
exposed through an SQL interface using the 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA' and
'PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA' databases.  intention exclusive lockintention lock

A kind of *lock* that applies to the table, used to indicate the kind of
lock the *transaction* intends to acquire on rows in the table.
Different transactions can acquire different kinds of intention locks on
the same table, but the first transaction to acquire an _intention
exclusive_ (IX) lock on a table prevents other transactions from
acquiring any S or X locks on the table.  Conversely, the first
transaction to acquire an _intention shared_ (IS) lock on a table
prevents other transactions from acquiring any X locks on the table.
The two-phase process allows the lock requests to be resolved in order,
without blocking locks and corresponding operations that are compatible.
For more information about this locking mechanism, see *note
innodb-locking::.  intention shared lockinverted index

A data structure optimized for document retrieval systems, used in the
implementation of 'InnoDB' *full-text search*.  The 'InnoDB' *FULLTEXT
index*, implemented as an inverted index, records the position of each
word within a document, rather than the location of a table row.  A
single column value (a document stored as a text string) is represented
by many entries in the inverted index.  IOPS

Acronym for *I/O operations per second*.  A common measurement for busy
systems, particularly *OLTP* applications.  If this value is near the
maximum that the storage devices can handle, the application can become
*disk-bound*, limiting *scalability*.  .isl file

A file that specifies the location of an *.ibd file* for an 'InnoDB'
table created with the 'DATA DIRECTORY =' clause in MySQL 5.6 and
higher, or with the 'CREATE TABLESPACE ... ADD DATAFILE' clause in MySQL
5.7 and higher.  It functions like a symbolic link, without the platform
restrictions of the actual symbolic link mechanism.  You can store
'InnoDB' *tablespaces* outside the *database* directory, for example, on
an especially large or fast storage device depending on the usage of the
table.  For details, see Creating Tables Externally
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-create-table-external.html),
and General Tablespaces
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/general-tablespaces.html).
isolation level

One of the foundations of database processing.  Isolation is the *I* in
the acronym *ACID*; the isolation level is the setting that fine-tunes
the balance between performance and reliability, consistency, and
reproducibility of results when multiple *transactions* are making
changes and performing queries at the same time.

From highest amount of consistency and protection to the least, the
isolation levels supported by InnoDB are: *SERIALIZABLE*, *REPEATABLE
READ*, *READ COMMITTED*, and *READ UNCOMMITTED*.

With 'InnoDB' tables, many users can keep the default isolation level
(_REPEATABLE READ_) for all operations.  Expert users might choose the
*READ COMMITTED* level as they push the boundaries of scalability with
*OLTP* processing, or during data warehousing operations where minor
inconsistencies do not affect the aggregate results of large amounts of
data.  The levels on the edges (*SERIALIZABLE* and *READ UNCOMMITTED*)
change the processing behavior to such an extent that they are rarely
used.

join

A *query* that retrieves data from more than one table, by referencing
columns in the tables that hold identical values.  Ideally, these
columns are part of an 'InnoDB' *foreign key* relationship, which
ensures *referential integrity* and that the join columns are *indexed*.
Often used to save space and improve query performance by replacing
repeated strings with numeric IDs, in a *normalized* data design.

KEY_BLOCK_SIZE

An option to specify the size of data pages within an 'InnoDB' table
that uses *compressed row format*.  The default is 8 kilobytes.  Lower
values risk hitting internal limits that depend on the combination of
row size and compression percentage.

For *note 'MyISAM': myisam-storage-engine. tables, 'KEY_BLOCK_SIZE'
optionally specifies the size in bytes to use for index key blocks.  The
value is treated as a hint; a different size could be used if necessary.
A 'KEY_BLOCK_SIZE' value specified for an individual index definition
overrides a table-level 'KEY_BLOCK_SIZE' value.

latch

A lightweight structure used by 'InnoDB' to implement a *lock* for its
own internal memory structures, typically held for a brief time measured
in milliseconds or microseconds.  A general term that includes both
*mutexes* (for exclusive access) and *rw-locks* (for shared access).
Certain latches are the focus of 'InnoDB' performance tuning.
Statistics about latch use and contention are available through the
*Performance Schema* interface.  list

The 'InnoDB' *buffer pool* is represented as a list of memory *pages*.
The list is reordered as new pages are accessed and enter the buffer
pool, as pages within the buffer pool are accessed again and are
considered newer, and as pages that are not accessed for a long time are
*evicted* from the buffer pool.  The buffer pool is divided into
*sublists*, and the replacement policy is a variation of the familiar
*LRU* technique.  lock

The high-level notion of an object that controls access to a resource,
such as a table, row, or internal data structure, as part of a *locking*
strategy.  For intensive performance tuning, you might delve into the
actual structures that implement locks, such as *mutexes* and *latches*.
lock escalation

An operation used in some database systems that converts many *row
locks* into a single *table lock*, saving memory space but reducing
concurrent access to the table.  'InnoDB' uses a space-efficient
representation for row locks, so that *lock* escalation is not needed.
lock mode

A shared (S) *lock* allows a *transaction* to read a row.  Multiple
transactions can acquire an S lock on that same row at the same time.

An exclusive (X) lock allows a transaction to update or delete a row.
No other transaction can acquire any kind of lock on that same row at
the same time.

*Intention locks* apply to the table, and are used to indicate what kind
of lock the transaction intends to acquire on rows in the table.
Different transactions can acquire different kinds of intention locks on
the same table, but the first transaction to acquire an intention
exclusive (IX) lock on a table prevents other transactions from
acquiring any S or X locks on the table.  Conversely, the first
transaction to acquire an intention shared (IS) lock on a table prevents
other transactions from acquiring any X locks on the table.  The
two-phase process allows the lock requests to be resolved in order,
without blocking locks and corresponding operations that are compatible.
locking

The system of protecting a *transaction* from seeing or changing data
that is being queried or changed by other transactions.  The *locking*
strategy must balance reliability and consistency of database operations
(the principles of the *ACID* philosophy) against the performance needed
for good *concurrency*.  Fine-tuning the locking strategy often involves
choosing an *isolation level* and ensuring all your database operations
are safe and reliable for that isolation level.  locking read

A *note 'SELECT': select. statement that also performs a *locking*
operation on an 'InnoDB' table.  Either 'SELECT ... FOR UPDATE' or
'SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE'.  It has the potential to produce a
*deadlock*, depending on the *isolation level* of the transaction.  The
opposite of a *non-locking read*.  Not allowed for global tables in a
*read-only transaction*.

'SELECT ... FOR SHARE' replaces 'SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE' in MySQL
8.0.1, but 'LOCK IN SHARE MODE' remains available for backward
compatibility.

See *note innodb-locking-reads::.  log

In the 'InnoDB' context, 'log' or 'log files' typically refers to the
*redo log* represented by the *ib_logfileN* files.  Another type of
'InnoDB' log is the *undo log*, which is a storage area that holds
copies of data modified by active transactions.

Other kinds of logs that are important in MySQL are the *error log* (for
diagnosing startup and runtime problems), *binary log* (for working with
replication and performing point-in-time restores), the *general query
log* (for diagnosing application problems), and the *slow query log*
(for diagnosing performance problems).  log buffer

The memory area that holds data to be written to the *log files* that
make up the *redo log*.  It is controlled by the
'innodb_log_buffer_size' configuration option.  log file

One of the *ib_logfileN* files that make up the *redo log*.  Data is
written to these files from the *log buffer* memory area.  log group

The set of files that make up the *redo log*, typically named
'ib_logfile0' and 'ib_logfile1'.  (For that reason, sometimes referred
to collectively as *ib_logfile*.)  logical

A type of operation that involves high-level, abstract aspects such as
tables, queries, indexes, and other SQL concepts.  Typically, logical
aspects are important to make database administration and application
development convenient and usable.  Contrast with *physical*.  logical
backup

A *backup* that reproduces table structure and data, without copying the
actual data files.  For example, the *'mysqldump'* command produces a
logical backup, because its output contains statements such as *note
'CREATE TABLE': create-table. and *note 'INSERT': insert. that can
re-create the data.  Contrast with *physical backup*.  A logical backup
offers flexibility (for example, you could edit table definitions or
insert statements before restoring), but can take substantially longer
to *restore* than a physical backup.  loose_

A prefix added to 'InnoDB' configuration options after server *startup*,
so any new configuration options not recognized by the current level of
MySQL do not cause a startup failure.  MySQL processes configuration
options that start with this prefix, but gives a warning rather than a
failure if the part after the prefix is not a recognized option.
low-water mark

A value representing a lower limit, typically a threshold value at which
some corrective action begins or becomes more aggressive.  Contrast with
*high-water mark*.  LRU

An acronym for 'least recently used', a common method for managing
storage areas.  The items that have not been used recently are *evicted*
when space is needed to cache newer items.  'InnoDB' uses the LRU
mechanism by default to manage the *pages* within the *buffer pool*, but
makes exceptions in cases where a page might be read only a single time,
such as during a *full table scan*.  This variation of the LRU algorithm
is called the *midpoint insertion strategy*.  For more information, see
*note innodb-buffer-pool::.  LSN

Acronym for 'log sequence number'.  This arbitrary, ever-increasing
value represents a point in time corresponding to operations recorded in
the *redo log*.  (This point in time is regardless of *transaction*
boundaries; it can fall in the middle of one or more transactions.)  It
is used internally by 'InnoDB' during *crash recovery* and for managing
the *buffer pool*.

Prior to MySQL 5.6.3, the LSN was a 4-byte unsigned integer.  The LSN
became an 8-byte unsigned integer in MySQL 5.6.3 when the redo log file
size limit increased from 4GB to 512GB, as additional bytes were
required to store extra size information.  Applications built on MySQL
5.6.3 or later that use LSN values should use 64-bit rather than 32-bit
variables to store and compare LSN values.

In the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product, you can specify an LSN to
represent the point in time from which to take an *incremental backup*.
The relevant LSN is displayed by the output of the 'mysqlbackup'
command.  Once you have the LSN corresponding to the time of a full
backup, you can specify that value to take a subsequent incremental
backup, whose output contains another LSN for the next incremental
backup.

master server

Frequently shortened to 'master'.  A database server machine in a
*replication* scenario that processes the initial insert, update, and
delete requests for data.  These changes are propagated to, and repeated
on, other servers known as *slave servers*.  master thread

An 'InnoDB' *thread* that performs various tasks in the background.
Most of these tasks are I/O related, such as writing changes from the
*change buffer* to the appropriate secondary indexes.

To improve *concurrency*, sometimes actions are moved from the master
thread to separate background threads.  For example, in MySQL 5.6 and
higher, *dirty pages* are *flushed* from the *buffer pool* by the *page
cleaner* thread rather than the master thread.  MDL

Acronym for 'metadata lock'.  memcached

A popular component of many MySQL and *NoSQL* software stacks, allowing
fast reads and writes for single values and caching the results entirely
in memory.  Traditionally, applications required extra logic to write
the same data to a MySQL database for permanent storage, or to read data
from a MySQL database when it was not cached yet in memory.  Now,
applications can use the simple 'memcached' protocol, supported by
client libraries for many languages, to communicate directly with MySQL
servers using 'InnoDB' or 'NDB' tables.  These NoSQL interfaces to MySQL
tables allow applications to achieve higher read and write performance
than by issuing SQL statements directly, and can simplify application
logic and deployment configurations for systems that already incorporate
'memcached' for in-memory caching.

The 'memcached' interface to 'InnoDB' tables is available in MySQL 5.6
and higher; see InnoDB memcached Plugin
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-memcached.html) for
details.  The 'memcached' interface to 'NDB' tables is available in NDB
Cluster 7.2 and later; see
<http://dev.mysql.com/doc/ndbapi/en/ndbmemcache.html> for details.
merge

To apply changes to data cached in memory, such as when a page is
brought into the *buffer pool*, and any applicable changes recorded in
the *change buffer* are incorporated into the page in the buffer pool.
The updated data is eventually written to the *tablespace* by the
*flush* mechanism.  metadata lock

A type of *lock* that prevents *DDL* operations on a table that is being
used at the same time by another *transaction*.  For details, see *note
metadata-locking::.

Enhancements to *online* operations, particularly in MySQL 5.6 and
higher, are focused on reducing the amount of metadata locking.  The
objective is for DDL operations that do not change the table structure
(such as *note 'CREATE INDEX': create-index. and *note 'DROP INDEX':
drop-index. for 'InnoDB' tables) to proceed while the table is being
queried, updated, and so on by other transactions.  metrics counter

A feature implemented by the 'INNODB_METRICS'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-metrics-table.html)
table in the *INFORMATION_SCHEMA*, in MySQL 5.6 and higher.  You can
query *counts* and totals for low-level 'InnoDB' operations, and use the
results for performance tuning in combination with data from the
*Performance Schema*.  midpoint insertion strategy

The technique of initially bringing *pages* into the 'InnoDB' *buffer
pool* not at the 'newest' end of the list, but instead somewhere in the
middle.  The exact location of this point can vary, based on the setting
of the 'innodb_old_blocks_pct' option.  The intent is that pages that
are only read once, such as during a *full table scan*, can be aged out
of the buffer pool sooner than with a strict *LRU* algorithm.  For more
information, see *note innodb-buffer-pool::.  mini-transaction

An internal phase of 'InnoDB' processing, when making changes at the
*physical* level to internal data structures during *DML* operations.  A
mini-transaction (mtr) has no notion of *rollback*; multiple
mini-transactions can occur within a single *transaction*.
Mini-transactions write information to the *redo log* that is used
during *crash recovery*.  A mini-transaction can also happen outside the
context of a regular transaction, for example during *purge* processing
by background threads.  mixed-mode insert

An *note 'INSERT': insert. statement where *auto-increment* values are
specified for some but not all of the new rows.  For example, a
multi-value 'INSERT' could specify a value for the auto-increment column
in some cases and 'NULL' in other cases.  'InnoDB' generates
auto-increment values for the rows where the column value was specified
as 'NULL'.  Another example is an *note 'INSERT ... ON DUPLICATE KEY
UPDATE': insert-on-duplicate. statement, where auto-increment values
might be generated but not used, for any duplicate rows that are
processed as 'UPDATE' rather than 'INSERT' statements.

Can cause consistency issues between *master* and *slave* servers in a
*replication* configuration.  Can require adjusting the value of the
*innodb_autoinc_lock_mode* configuration option.  .MRG file

A file containing references to other tables, used by the 'MERGE'
storage engine.  Files with this extension are always included in
backups produced by the 'mysqlbackup' command of the *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* product.  mtrmulti-core

A type of processor that can take advantage of multithreaded programs,
such as the MySQL server.  multiversion concurrency controlmutex

Informal abbreviation for 'mutex variable'.  (Mutex itself is short for
'mutual exclusion'.)  The low-level object that 'InnoDB' uses to
represent and enforce exclusive-access *locks* to internal in-memory
data structures.  Once the lock is acquired, any other process, thread,
and so on is prevented from acquiring the same lock.  Contrast with
*rw-locks*, which 'InnoDB' uses to represent and enforce shared-access
*locks* to internal in-memory data structures.  Mutexes and rw-locks are
known collectively as *latches*.  MVCC

Acronym for 'multiversion concurrency control'.  This technique lets
'InnoDB' *transactions* with certain *isolation levels* perform
*consistent read* operations; that is, to query rows that are being
updated by other transactions, and see the values from before those
updates occurred.  This is a powerful technique to increase
*concurrency*, by allowing queries to proceed without waiting due to
*locks* held by the other transactions.

This technique is not universal in the database world.  Some other
database products, and some other MySQL storage engines, do not support
it.  my.cnf

The name, on Unix or Linux systems, of the MySQL *option file*.  my.ini

The name, on Windows systems, of the MySQL *option file*.  .MYD file

A file that MySQL uses to store data for a *note 'MyISAM':
myisam-storage-engine. table.  .MYI file

A file that MySQL uses to store indexes for a *note 'MyISAM':
myisam-storage-engine. table.  mysql

The *note 'mysql': mysql. program is the command-line interpreter for
the MySQL database.  It processes *SQL* statements, and also
MySQL-specific commands such as *note 'SHOW TABLES': show-tables, by
passing requests to the *note 'mysqld': mysqld. daemon.  MySQL
Enterprise Backup

A licensed product that performs *hot backups* of MySQL databases.  It
offers the most efficiency and flexibility when backing up *note
'InnoDB': innodb-storage-engine. tables, but can also back up *note
'MyISAM': myisam-storage-engine. and other kinds of tables.  mysqlbackup
command

A command-line tool of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  It
performs a *hot backup* operation for *note 'InnoDB':
innodb-storage-engine. tables, and a warm backup for *note 'MyISAM':
myisam-storage-engine. and other kinds of tables.  See *note
mysql-enterprise-backup:: for more information about this command.
mysqld

The *note 'mysqld': mysqld. program is the database engine for the MySQL
database.  It runs as a Unix daemon or Windows service, constantly
waiting for requests and performing maintenance work in the background.
mysqldump

A command that performs a *logical backup* of some combination of
databases, tables, and table data.  The results are SQL statements that
reproduce the original schema objects, data, or both.  For substantial
amounts of data, a *physical backup* solution such as *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* is faster, particularly for the *restore* operation.

natural key

An indexed column, typically a *primary key*, where the values have some
real-world significance.  Usually advised against because:

   * If the value should ever change, there is potentially a lot of
     index maintenance to re-sort the *clustered index* and update the
     copies of the primary key value that are repeated in each
     *secondary index*.

   * Even seemingly stable values can change in unpredictable ways that
     are difficult to represent correctly in the database.  For example,
     one country can change into two or several, making the original
     country code obsolete.  Or, rules about unique values might have
     exceptions.  For example, even if taxpayer IDs are intended to be
     unique to a single person, a database might have to handle records
     that violate that rule, such as in cases of identity theft.
     Taxpayer IDs and other sensitive ID numbers also make poor primary
     keys, because they may need to be secured, encrypted, and otherwise
     treated differently than other columns.

Thus, it is typically better to use arbitrary numeric values to form a
*synthetic key*, for example using an *auto-increment* column.  neighbor
page

Any *page* in the same *extent* as a particular page.  When a page is
selected to be *flushed*, any neighbor pages that are *dirty* are
typically flushed as well, as an I/O optimization for traditional hard
disks.  In MySQL 5.6 and up, this behavior can be controlled by the
configuration variable 'innodb_flush_neighbors'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_flush_neighbors);
you might turn that setting off for SSD drives, which do not have the
same overhead for writing smaller batches of data at random locations.
next-key lock

A combination of a *record lock* on the index record and a gap lock on
the gap before the index record.  non-locking read

A *query* that does not use the 'SELECT ... FOR UPDATE' or 'SELECT ...
LOCK IN SHARE MODE' clauses.  The only kind of query allowed for global
tables in a *read-only transaction*.  The opposite of a *locking read*.
See *note innodb-consistent-read::.

'SELECT ... FOR SHARE' replaces 'SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE' in MySQL
8.0.1, but 'LOCK IN SHARE MODE' remains available for backward
compatibility.  non-repeatable read

The situation when a query retrieves data, and a later query within the
same *transaction* retrieves what should be the same data, but the
queries return different results (changed by another transaction
committing in the meantime).

This kind of operation goes against the *ACID* principle of database
design.  Within a transaction, data should be consistent, with
predictable and stable relationships.

Among different *isolation levels*, non-repeatable reads are prevented
by the *serializable read* and *repeatable read* levels, and allowed by
the *consistent read*, and *read uncommitted* levels.  nonblocking I/O

An industry term that means the same as *asynchronous I/O*. normalized

A database design strategy where data is split into multiple tables, and
duplicate values condensed into single rows represented by an ID, to
avoid storing, querying, and updating redundant or lengthy values.  It
is typically used in *OLTP* applications.

For example, an address might be given a unique ID, so that a census
database could represent the relationship *lives at this address* by
associating that ID with each member of a family, rather than storing
multiple copies of a complex value such as *123 Main Street, Anytown,
USA*.

For another example, although a simple address book application might
store each phone number in the same table as a person's name and
address, a phone company database might give each phone number a special
ID, and store the numbers and IDs in a separate table.  This normalized
representation could simplify large-scale updates when area codes split
apart.

Normalization is not always recommended.  Data that is primarily
queried, and only updated by deleting entirely and reloading, is often
kept in fewer, larger tables with redundant copies of duplicate values.
This data representation is referred to as *denormalized*, and is
frequently found in data warehousing applications.  NoSQL

A broad term for a set of data access technologies that do not use the
*SQL* language as their primary mechanism for reading and writing data.
Some NoSQL technologies act as key-value stores, only accepting
single-value reads and writes; some relax the restrictions of the *ACID*
methodology; still others do not require a pre-planned *schema*.  MySQL
users can combine NoSQL-style processing for speed and simplicity with
SQL operations for flexibility and convenience, by using the *memcached*
API to directly access some kinds of MySQL tables.  The 'memcached'
interface to 'InnoDB' tables is available in MySQL 5.6 and higher; see
InnoDB memcached Plugin
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-memcached.html) for
details.  The 'memcached' interface to 'NDB' tables is available in NDB
Cluster 7.2 and later; see ndbmemcache--Memcache API for NDB Cluster
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/ndbapi/en/ndbmemcache.html).  NOT NULL
constraint

A type of *constraint* that specifies that a *column* cannot contain any
*NULL* values.  It helps to preserve *referential integrity*, as the
database server can identify data with erroneous missing values.  It
also helps in the arithmetic involved in query optimization, allowing
the optimizer to predict the number of entries in an index on that
column.  NULL

A special value in *SQL*, indicating the absence of data.  Any
arithmetic operation or equality test involving a 'NULL' value, in turn
produces a 'NULL' result.  (Thus it is similar to the IEEE
floating-point concept of NaN, 'not a number'.)  Any aggregate
calculation such as 'AVG()' ignores rows with 'NULL' values, when
determining how many rows to divide by.  The only test that works with
'NULL' values uses the SQL idioms 'IS NULL' or 'IS NOT NULL'.

'NULL' values play a part in *index* operations, because for performance
a database must minimize the overhead of keeping track of missing data
values.  Typically, 'NULL' values are not stored in an index, because a
query that tests an indexed column using a standard comparison operator
could never match a row with a 'NULL' value for that column.  For the
same reason, unique indexes do not prevent 'NULL' values; those values
simply are not represented in the index.  Declaring a 'NOT NULL'
constraint on a column provides reassurance that there are no rows left
out of the index, allowing for better query optimization (accurate
counting of rows and estimation of whether to use the index).

Because the *primary key* must be able to uniquely identify every row in
the table, a single-column primary key cannot contain any 'NULL' values,
and a multi-column primary key cannot contain any rows with 'NULL'
values in all columns.

Although the Oracle database allows a 'NULL' value to be concatenated
with a string, 'InnoDB' treats the result of such an operation as
'NULL'.

off-page column

A column containing variable-length data (such as *note 'BLOB': blob.
and *note 'VARCHAR': char.) that is too long to fit on a *B-tree* page.
The data is stored in *overflow pages*.  The *DYNAMIC* row format is
more efficient for such storage than the older *COMPACT* row format.
OLTP

Acronym for 'Online Transaction Processing'.  A database system, or a
database application, that runs a workload with many *transactions*,
with frequent writes as well as reads, typically affecting small amounts
of data at a time.  For example, an airline reservation system or an
application that processes bank deposits.  The data might be organized
in *normalized* form for a balance between *DML* (insert/update/delete)
efficiency and *query* efficiency.  Contrast with *data warehouse*.

With its *row-level locking* and *transactional* capability, *InnoDB* is
the ideal storage engine for MySQL tables used in OLTP applications.
online

A type of operation that involves no downtime, blocking, or restricted
operation for the database.  Typically applied to *DDL*. Operations that
shorten the periods of restricted operation, such as *fast index
creation*, have evolved into a wider set of *online DDL* operations in
MySQL 5.6.

In the context of backups, a *hot backup* is an online operation and a
*warm backup* is partially an online operation.  online DDL

A feature that improves the performance, concurrency, and availability
of 'InnoDB' tables during *DDL* (primarily *note 'ALTER TABLE':
alter-table.) operations.  See InnoDB and Online DDL
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-online-ddl.html) for
details.

The details vary according to the type of operation.  In some cases, the
table can be modified concurrently while the *note 'ALTER TABLE':
alter-table. is in progress.  The operation might be able to be
performed without a table copy, or using a specially optimized type of
table copy.  DML log space usage for in-place operations is controlled
by the 'innodb_online_alter_log_max_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_online_alter_log_max_size)
configuration option.

This feature is an enhancement of the *Fast Index Creation* feature in
MySQL 5.5.  .OPT file

A file containing database configuration information.  Files with this
extension are included in backups produced by the 'mysqlbackup' command
of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  optimistic

A methodology that guides low-level implementation decisions for a
relational database system.  The requirements of performance and
*concurrency* in a relational database mean that operations must be
started or dispatched quickly.  The requirements of consistency and
*referential integrity* mean that any operation could fail: a
transaction might be rolled back, a *DML* operation could violate a
constraint, a request for a lock could cause a deadlock, a network error
could cause a timeout.  An optimistic strategy is one that assumes most
requests or attempts will succeed, so that relatively little work is
done to prepare for the failure case.  When this assumption is true, the
database does little unnecessary work; when requests do fail, extra work
must be done to clean up and undo changes.

'InnoDB' uses optimistic strategies for operations such as *locking* and
*commits*.  For example, data changed by a transaction can be written to
the data files before the commit occurs, making the commit itself very
fast, but requiring more work to undo the changes if the transaction is
rolled back.

The opposite of an optimistic strategy is a *pessimistic* one, where a
system is optimized to deal with operations that are unreliable and
frequently unsuccessful.  This methodology is rare in a database system,
because so much care goes into choosing reliable hardware, networks, and
algorithms.  optimizer

The MySQL component that determines the best *indexes* and *join* order
to use for a *query*, based on characteristics and data distribution of
the relevant *tables*.  option

A configuration parameter for MySQL, either stored in the *option file*
or passed on the command line.

For the *options* that apply to *InnoDB* tables, each option name starts
with the prefix 'innodb_'.  option file

The file that holds the configuration *options* for the MySQL instance.
Traditionally, on Linux and Unix this file is named 'my.cnf', and on
Windows it is named 'my.ini'.  overflow page

Separately allocated disk *pages* that hold variable-length columns
(such as 'BLOB' and 'VARCHAR') that are too long to fit on a *B-tree*
page.  The associated columns are known as *off-page columns*.

page

A unit representing how much data 'InnoDB' transfers at any one time
between disk (the *data files*) and memory (the *buffer pool*).  A page
can contain one or more *rows*, depending on how much data is in each
row.  If a row does not fit entirely into a single page, 'InnoDB' sets
up additional pointer-style data structures so that the information
about the row can be stored in one page.

One way to fit more data in each page is to use *compressed row format*.
For tables that use BLOBs or large text fields, *compact row format*
allows those large columns to be stored separately from the rest of the
row, reducing I/O overhead and memory usage for queries that do not
reference those columns.

When 'InnoDB' reads or writes sets of pages as a batch to increase I/O
throughput, it reads or writes an *extent* at a time.

All the 'InnoDB' disk data structures within a MySQL instance share the
same *page size*.  page cleaner

An 'InnoDB' background *thread* that *flushes* *dirty pages* from the
*buffer pool*.  Prior to MySQL 5.6, this activity was performed by the
*master thread*.  The number of page cleaner threads is controlled by
the 'innodb_page_cleaners'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_page_cleaners)
configuration option, introduced in MySQL 5.7.4.  page size

For releases up to and including MySQL 5.5, the size of each 'InnoDB'
*page* is fixed at 16 kilobytes.  This value represents a balance: large
enough to hold the data for most rows, yet small enough to minimize the
performance overhead of transferring unneeded data to memory.  Other
values are not tested or supported.

Starting in MySQL 5.6, the page size for an 'InnoDB' *instance* can be
either 4KB, 8KB, or 16KB, controlled by the 'innodb_page_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_page_size)
configuration option.  As of MySQL 5.7.6, 'InnoDB' also supports 32KB
and 64KB page sizes.  For 32KB and 64KB page sizes,
'ROW_FORMAT=COMPRESSED' is not supported and the maximum record size is
16KB.

Page size is set when creating the MySQL instance, and it remains
constant afterward.  The same page size applies to all 'InnoDB'
*tablespaces*, including the *system tablespace*, *file-per-table*
tablespaces, and *general tablespaces*.

Smaller page sizes can help performance with storage devices that use
small block sizes, particularly for *SSD* devices in *disk-bound*
workloads, such as for *OLTP* applications.  As individual rows are
updated, less data is copied into memory, written to disk, reorganized,
locked, and so on.  .par file

A file containing partition definitions.  Files with this extension are
included in backups produced by the 'mysqlbackup' command of the *MySQL
Enterprise Backup* product.

With the introduction of native partitioning support for 'InnoDB' tables
in MySQL 5.7.6, '.par' files are no longer created for partitioned
'InnoDB' tables.  Partitioned 'MyISAM' tables continue to use '.par'
files in MySQL 5.7.  In MySQL 8.0, partitioning support is only provided
by the 'InnoDB' storage engine.  As such, '.par' files are no longer
used as of MySQL 8.0.  parent table

The table in a *foreign key* relationship that holds the initial column
values pointed to from the *child table*.  The consequences of deleting,
or updating rows in the parent table depend on the 'ON UPDATE' and 'ON
DELETE' clauses in the foreign key definition.  Rows with corresponding
values in the child table could be automatically deleted or updated in
turn, or those columns could be set to 'NULL', or the operation could be
prevented.  partial backup

A *backup* that contains some of the *tables* in a MySQL database, or
some of the databases in a MySQL instance.  Contrast with *full backup*.
partial index

An *index* that represents only part of a column value, typically the
first N characters (the *prefix*) of a long 'VARCHAR' value.
Performance Schema

The 'performance_schema' schema, in MySQL 5.5 and up, presents a set of
tables that you can query to get detailed information about the
performance characteristics of many internal parts of the MySQL server.
See *note performance-schema::.  pessimistic

A methodology that sacrifices performance or concurrency in favor of
safety.  It is appropriate if a high proportion of requests or attempts
might fail, or if the consequences of a failed request are severe.
'InnoDB' uses what is known as a pessimistic *locking* strategy, to
minimize the chance of *deadlocks*.  At the application level, you might
avoid deadlocks by using a pessimistic strategy of acquiring all locks
needed by a transaction at the very beginning.

Many built-in database mechanisms use the opposite *optimistic*
methodology.  phantom

A row that appears in the result set of a query, but not in the result
set of an earlier query.  For example, if a query is run twice within a
*transaction*, and in the meantime, another transaction commits after
inserting a new row or updating a row so that it matches the 'WHERE'
clause of the query.

This occurrence is known as a phantom read.  It is harder to guard
against than a *non-repeatable read*, because locking all the rows from
the first query result set does not prevent the changes that cause the
phantom to appear.

Among different *isolation levels*, phantom reads are prevented by the
*serializable read* level, and allowed by the *repeatable read*,
*consistent read*, and *read uncommitted* levels.  physical

A type of operation that involves hardware-related aspects such as disk
blocks, memory pages, files, bits, disk reads, and so on.  Typically,
physical aspects are important during expert-level performance tuning
and problem diagnosis.  Contrast with *logical*.  physical backup

A *backup* that copies the actual data files.  For example, the
*'mysqlbackup'* command of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product
produces a physical backup, because its output contains data files that
can be used directly by the 'mysqld' server, resulting in a faster
*restore* operation.  Contrast with *logical backup*.  PITR

Acronym for *point-in-time recovery*.  plan stability

A property of a *query execution plan*, where the optimizer makes the
same choices each time for a given *query*, so that performance is
consistent and predictable.  point-in-time recovery

The process of restoring a *backup* to recreate the state of the
database at a specific date and time.  Commonly abbreviated 'PITR'.
Because it is unlikely that the specified time corresponds exactly to
the time of a backup, this technique usually requires a combination of a
*physical backup* and a *logical backup*.  For example, with the *MySQL
Enterprise Backup* product, you restore the last backup that you took
before the specified point in time, then replay changes from the *binary
log* between the time of the backup and the PITR time.  prefixprepared
backup

A set of backup files, produced by the *MySQL Enterprise Backup*
product, after all the stages of applying *binary logs* and *incremental
backups* are finished.  The resulting files are ready to be *restored*.
Prior to the apply steps, the files are known as a *raw backup*.
primary key

A set of columns--and by implication, the index based on this set of
columns--that can uniquely identify every row in a table.  As such, it
must be a unique index that does not contain any 'NULL' values.

'InnoDB' requires that every table has such an index (also called the
*clustered index* or *cluster index*), and organizes the table storage
based on the column values of the primary key.

When choosing primary key values, consider using arbitrary values (a
*synthetic key*) rather than relying on values derived from some other
source (a *natural key*).  process

An instance of an executing program.  The operating system switches
between multiple running processes, allowing for a certain degree of
*concurrency*.  On most operating systems, processes can contain
multiple *threads* of execution that share resources.  Context-switching
between threads is faster than the equivalent switching between
processes.  pseudo-record

An artificial record in an index, used for *locking* key values or
ranges that do not currently exist.  Pthreads

The POSIX threads standard, which defines an API for threading and
locking operations on Unix and Linux systems.  On Unix and Linux
systems, 'InnoDB' uses this implementation for *mutexes*.  purge

A type of garbage collection that runs on a periodic schedule.  Purge
parses and processes *undo log* pages from the *history list* for the
purpose of removing clustered and secondary index records that were
marked for deletion (by previous *note 'DELETE': delete. statements) and
are no longer required for *MVCC* or *rollback*.  Purge frees undo log
pages from the history list after processing them.  Purge operations are
performed by the master thread.  purge buffering

The technique of storing changes to secondary index pages, resulting
from 'DELETE' operations, in the *change buffer* rather than writing the
changes immediately, so that the physical writes can be performed to
minimize random I/O. (Because delete operations are a two-step process,
this operation buffers the write that normally purges an index record
that was previously marked for deletion.)  It is one of the types of
*change buffering*; the others are *insert buffering* and *delete
buffering*.  purge lag

Another name for the 'InnoDB' *history list*.  Related to the
'innodb_max_purge_lag' configuration option.  purge thread

A *thread* within the 'InnoDB' process that is dedicated to performing
the periodic *purge* operation.  In MySQL 5.6 and higher, multiple purge
threads are enabled by the 'innodb_purge_threads' configuration option.

query

In *SQL*, an operation that reads information from one or more *tables*.
Depending on the organization of data and the parameters of the query,
the lookup might be optimized by consulting an *index*.  If multiple
tables are involved, the query is known as a *join*.

For historical reasons, sometimes discussions of internal processing for
statements use 'query' in a broader sense, including other types of
MySQL statements such as *DDL* and *DML* statements.  query execution
plan

The set of decisions made by the optimizer about how to perform a
*query* most efficiently, including which *index* or indexes to use, and
the order in which to *join* tables.  *Plan stability* involves the same
choices being made consistently for a given query.  query logquiesce

To reduce the amount of database activity, often in preparation for an
operation such as an *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table, a *backup*, or a
*shutdown*.  Might or might not involve doing as much *flushing* as
possible, so that *InnoDB* does not continue doing background I/O.

In MySQL 5.6 and higher, the syntax 'FLUSH TABLES ... FOR EXPORT' writes
some data to disk for 'InnoDB' tables that make it simpler to back up
those tables by copying the data files.

R-tree

A tree data structure used for spatial indexing of multi-dimensional
data such as geographical coordinates, rectangles or polygons.  RAID

Acronym for 'Redundant Array of Inexpensive Drives'.  Spreading I/O
operations across multiple drives enables greater *concurrency* at the
hardware level, and improves the efficiency of low-level write
operations that otherwise would be performed in sequence.  random dive

A technique for quickly estimating the number of different values in a
column (the column's *cardinality*).  'InnoDB' samples pages at random
from the index and uses that data to estimate the number of different
values.  raw backup

The initial set of backup files produced by the *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* product, before the changes reflected in the *binary log* and
any *incremental backups* are applied.  At this stage, the files are not
ready to *restore*.  After these changes are applied, the files are
known as a *prepared backup*.  READ COMMITTED

An *isolation level* that uses a *locking* strategy that relaxes some of
the protection between *transactions*, in the interest of performance.
Transactions cannot see uncommitted data from other transactions, but
they can see data that is committed by another transaction after the
current transaction started.  Thus, a transaction never sees any bad
data, but the data that it does see may depend to some extent on the
timing of other transactions.

When a transaction with this isolation level performs 'UPDATE ... WHERE'
or 'DELETE ... WHERE' operations, other transactions might have to wait.
The transaction can perform 'SELECT ... FOR UPDATE', and 'LOCK IN SHARE
MODE' operations without making other transactions wait.

'SELECT ... FOR SHARE' replaces 'SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE' in MySQL
8.0.1, but 'LOCK IN SHARE MODE' remains available for backward
compatibility.  read phenomena

Phenomena such as *dirty reads*, *non-repeatable reads*, and *phantom*
reads which can occur when a transaction reads data that another
transaction has modified.  READ UNCOMMITTED

The *isolation level* that provides the least amount of protection
between transactions.  Queries employ a *locking* strategy that allows
them to proceed in situations where they would normally wait for another
transaction.  However, this extra performance comes at the cost of less
reliable results, including data that has been changed by other
transactions and not committed yet (known as *dirty read*).  Use this
isolation level with great caution, and be aware that the results might
not be consistent or reproducible, depending on what other transactions
are doing at the same time.  Typically, transactions with this isolation
level only do queries, not insert, update, or delete operations.  read
view

An internal snapshot used by the *MVCC* mechanism of 'InnoDB'.  Certain
*transactions*, depending on their *isolation level*, see the data
values as they were at the time the transaction (or in some cases, the
statement) started.  Isolation levels that use a read view are
*REPEATABLE READ*, *READ COMMITTED*, and *READ UNCOMMITTED*. read-ahead

A type of I/O request that prefetches a group of *pages* (an entire
*extent*) into the *buffer pool* asynchronously, in anticipation that
these pages will be needed soon.  The linear read-ahead technique
prefetches all the pages of one extent based on access patterns for
pages in the preceding extent.  The random read-ahead technique
prefetches all the pages for an extent once a certain number of pages
from the same extent are in the buffer pool.  Random read-ahead is not
part of MySQL 5.5, but is re-introduced in MySQL 5.6 under the control
of the 'innodb_random_read_ahead' configuration option.  read-only
transaction

A type of *transaction* that can be optimized for 'InnoDB' tables by
eliminating some of the bookkeeping involved with creating a *read view*
for each transaction.  Can only perform *non-locking read* queries.  It
can be started explicitly with the syntax *note 'START TRANSACTION READ
ONLY': commit, or automatically under certain conditions.  See
Optimizing InnoDB Read-Only Transactions
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-performance-ro-txn.html)
for details.  record lock

A lock on an index record.  For example, 'SELECT c1 FROM t WHERE c1 = 10
FOR UPDATE;' prevents any other transaction from inserting, updating, or
deleting rows where the value of 't.c1' is 10.  Contrast with *gap lock*
and *next-key lock*.  redo

The data, in units of records, recorded in the *redo log* when DML
statements make changes to 'InnoDB' tables.  It is used during *crash
recovery* to correct data written by incomplete *transactions*.  The
ever-increasing *LSN* value represents the cumulative amount of redo
data that has passed through the redo log.  redo log

A disk-based data structure used during *crash recovery*, to correct
data written by incomplete *transactions*.  During normal operation, it
encodes requests to change 'InnoDB' table data, which result from SQL
statements or low-level API calls through NoSQL interfaces.
Modifications that did not finish updating the *data files* before an
unexpected *shutdown* are replayed automatically.

The redo log is physically represented as a set of files, typically
named 'ib_logfile0' and 'ib_logfile1'.  The data in the redo log is
encoded in terms of records affected; this data is collectively referred
to as *redo*.  The passage of data through the redo logs is represented
by the ever-increasing *LSN* value.  The original 4GB limit on maximum
size for the redo log is raised to 512GB in MySQL 5.6.3.

The disk layout of the redo log is influenced by the configuration
options 'innodb_log_file_size', 'innodb_log_group_home_dir', and
(rarely) 'innodb_log_files_in_group'.  The performance of redo log
operations is also affected by the *log buffer*, which is controlled by
the 'innodb_log_buffer_size' configuration option.  redo log archiving

An 'InnoDB' feature that, when enabled, sequentially writes redo log
records to an archive file to avoid potential loss of data than can
occur when a backup utility fails to keep pace with redo log generation
while a backup operation is in progress.  For more information, see Redo
Log Archiving
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/innodb-redo-log.html#innodb-redo-log-archiving).
redundant row format

The oldest 'InnoDB' *row format*.  Prior to MySQL 5.0.3, it was the only
row format available in 'InnoDB'.  From MySQL 5.0.3 to MySQL 5.7.8, the
default row format is *COMPACT*. As of MySQL 5.7.9, the default row
format is defined by the 'innodb_default_row_format'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_default_row_format)
configuration option, which has a default setting of *DYNAMIC*. You can
still specify the *REDUNDANT* row format for compatibility with older
'InnoDB' tables.

For more information, see *note innodb-row-format::.  referential
integrity

The technique of maintaining data always in a consistent format, part of
the *ACID* philosophy.  In particular, data in different tables is kept
consistent through the use of *foreign key constraints*, which can
prevent changes from happening or automatically propagate those changes
to all related tables.  Related mechanisms include the *unique
constraint*, which prevents duplicate values from being inserted by
mistake, and the *NOT NULL constraint*, which prevents blank values from
being inserted by mistake.  relational

An important aspect of modern database systems.  The database server
encodes and enforces relationships such as one-to-one, one-to-many,
many-to-one, and uniqueness.  For example, a person might have zero,
one, or many phone numbers in an address database; a single phone number
might be associated with several family members.  In a financial
database, a person might be required to have exactly one taxpayer ID,
and any taxpayer ID could only be associated with one person.

The database server can use these relationships to prevent bad data from
being inserted, and to find efficient ways to look up information.  For
example, if a value is declared to be unique, the server can stop
searching as soon as the first match is found, and it can reject
attempts to insert a second copy of the same value.

At the database level, these relationships are expressed through SQL
features such as *columns* within a table, unique and 'NOT NULL'
*constraints*, *foreign keys*, and different kinds of join operations.
Complex relationships typically involve data split between more than one
table.  Often, the data is *normalized*, so that duplicate values in
one-to-many relationships are stored only once.

In a mathematical context, the relations within a database are derived
from set theory.  For example, the 'OR' and 'AND' operators of a 'WHERE'
clause represent the notions of union and intersection.  relevance

In the *full-text search* feature, a number signifying the similarity
between the search string and the data in the *FULLTEXT index*.  For
example, when you search for a single word, that word is typically more
relevant for a row where it occurs several times in the text than a row
where it appears only once.  REPEATABLE READ

The default *isolation level* for 'InnoDB'.  It prevents any rows that
are queried from being changed by other *transactions*, thus blocking
*non-repeatable reads* but not *phantom* reads.  It uses a moderately
strict *locking* strategy so that all queries within a transaction see
data from the same snapshot, that is, the data as it was at the time the
transaction started.

When a transaction with this isolation level performs 'UPDATE ...
WHERE', 'DELETE ... WHERE', 'SELECT ... FOR UPDATE', and 'LOCK IN SHARE
MODE' operations, other transactions might have to wait.

'SELECT ... FOR SHARE' replaces 'SELECT ... LOCK IN SHARE MODE' in MySQL
8.0.1, but 'LOCK IN SHARE MODE' remains available for backward
compatibility.  repertoire

Repertoire is a term applied to character sets.  A character set
repertoire is the collection of characters in the set.  See *note
charset-repertoire::.  replication

The practice of sending changes from a *master database*, to one or more
*slave databases*, so that all databases have the same data.  This
technique has a wide range of uses, such as load-balancing for better
scalability, disaster recovery, and testing software upgrades and
configuration changes.  The changes can be sent between the database by
methods called *row-based replication* and *statement-based
replication*.  restore

The process of putting a set of backup files from the *MySQL Enterprise
Backup* product in place for use by MySQL. This operation can be
performed to fix a corrupted database, to return to some earlier point
in time, or (in a *replication* context) to set up a new *slave
database*.  In the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product, this operation is
performed by the 'copy-back' option of the 'mysqlbackup' command.
rollback

A *SQL* statement that ends a *transaction*, undoing any changes made by
the transaction.  It is the opposite of *commit*, which makes permanent
any changes made in the transaction.

By default, MySQL uses the *autocommit* setting, which automatically
issues a commit following each SQL statement.  You must change this
setting before you can use the rollback technique.  rollback segment

The storage area containing the *undo logs*.  Rollback segments have
traditionally resided in the *system tablespace*.  As of MySQL 5.6,
rollback segments can reside in *undo tablespaces*.  As of MySQL 5.7,
rollback segments are also allocated to the _global temporary
tablespace_.  row

The logical data structure defined by a set of *columns*.  A set of rows
makes up a *table*.  Within 'InnoDB' *data files*, each *page* can
contain one or more rows.

Although 'InnoDB' uses the term *row format* for consistency with MySQL
syntax, the row format is a property of each table and applies to all
rows in that table.  row format

The disk storage format for *rows* of an 'InnoDB' *table*.  As 'InnoDB'
gains new capabilities such as *compression*, new row formats are
introduced to support the resulting improvements in storage efficiency
and performance.

The row format of an 'InnoDB' table is specified by the 'ROW_FORMAT'
option or by the 'innodb_default_row_format'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_default_row_format)
configuration option (introduced in MySQL 5.7.9).  Row formats include
'REDUNDANT', 'COMPACT', 'COMPRESSED', and 'DYNAMIC'.  To view the row
format of an 'InnoDB' table, issue the *note 'SHOW TABLE STATUS':
show-table-status. statement or query 'InnoDB' table metadata in the
*note 'INFORMATION_SCHEMA': information-schema.  row lock

A *lock* that prevents a row from being accessed in an incompatible way
by another *transaction*.  Other rows in the same table can be freely
written to by other transactions.  This is the type of *locking* done by
*DML* operations on *InnoDB* tables.

Contrast with *table locks* used by *note 'MyISAM':
myisam-storage-engine, or during *DDL* operations on 'InnoDB' tables
that cannot be done with *online DDL*; those locks block concurrent
access to the table.  row-based replication

A form of *replication* where events are propagated from the *master
server* specifying how to change individual rows on the *slave server*.
It is safe to use for all settings of the 'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode'
option.  row-level locking

The *locking* mechanism used for *InnoDB* tables, relying on *row locks*
rather than *table locks*.  Multiple *transactions* can modify the same
table concurrently.  Only if two transactions try to modify the same row
does one of the transactions wait for the other to complete (and release
its row locks).  rw-lock

The low-level object that 'InnoDB' uses to represent and enforce
shared-access *locks* to internal in-memory data structures following
certain rules.  Contrast with *mutexes*, which 'InnoDB' uses to
represent and enforce exclusive access to internal in-memory data
structures.  Mutexes and rw-locks are known collectively as *latches*.

'rw-lock' types include 's-locks' (shared locks), 'x-locks' (exclusive
locks), and 'sx-locks' (shared-exclusive locks).

   * An 's-lock' provides read access to a common resource.

   * An 'x-lock' provides write access to a common resource while not
     permitting inconsistent reads by other threads.

   * An 'sx-lock' provides write access to a common resource while
     permitting inconsistent reads by other threads.  'sx-locks' were
     introduced in MySQL 5.7 to optimize concurrency and improve
     scalability for read-write workloads.

The following matrix summarizes rw-lock type compatibility.

               S              SX             X
                                             
S              Compatible     Compatible     Conflict
                                             
SX             Compatible     Conflict       Conflict
                                             
X              Conflict       Conflict       Conflict
                              

savepoint

Savepoints help to implement nested *transactions*.  They can be used to
provide scope to operations on tables that are part of a larger
transaction.  For example, scheduling a trip in a reservation system
might involve booking several different flights; if a desired flight is
unavailable, you might *roll back* the changes involved in booking that
one leg, without rolling back the earlier flights that were successfully
booked.  scalability

The ability to add more work and issue more simultaneous requests to a
system, without a sudden drop in performance due to exceeding the limits
of system capacity.  Software architecture, hardware configuration,
application coding, and type of workload all play a part in scalability.
When the system reaches its maximum capacity, popular techniques for
increasing scalability are *scale up* (increasing the capacity of
existing hardware or software) and *scale out* (adding new servers and
more instances of MySQL). Often paired with *availability* as critical
aspects of a large-scale deployment.  scale out

A technique for increasing *scalability* by adding new servers and more
instances of MySQL. For example, setting up replication, NDB Cluster,
connection pooling, or other features that spread work across a group of
servers.  Contrast with *scale up*.  scale up

A technique for increasing *scalability* by increasing the capacity of
existing hardware or software.  For example, increasing the memory on a
server and adjusting memory-related parameters such as
'innodb_buffer_pool_size' and 'innodb_buffer_pool_instances'.  Contrast
with *scale out*.  schema

Conceptually, a schema is a set of interrelated database objects, such
as tables, table columns, data types of the columns, indexes, foreign
keys, and so on.  These objects are connected through SQL syntax,
because the columns make up the tables, the foreign keys refer to tables
and columns, and so on.  Ideally, they are also connected logically,
working together as part of a unified application or flexible framework.
For example, the *INFORMATION_SCHEMA* and *performance_schema* databases
use 'schema' in their names to emphasize the close relationships between
the tables and columns they contain.

In MySQL, physically, a *schema* is synonymous with a *database*.  You
can substitute the keyword 'SCHEMA' instead of 'DATABASE' in MySQL SQL
syntax, for example using 'CREATE SCHEMA' instead of 'CREATE DATABASE'.

Some other database products draw a distinction.  For example, in the
Oracle Database product, a *schema* represents only a part of a
database: the tables and other objects owned by a single user.  search
index

In MySQL, *full-text search* queries use a special kind of index, the
*FULLTEXT index*.  In MySQL 5.6.4 and up, 'InnoDB' and 'MyISAM' tables
both support 'FULLTEXT' indexes; formerly, these indexes were only
available for 'MyISAM' tables.  secondary index

A type of 'InnoDB' *index* that represents a subset of table columns.
An 'InnoDB' table can have zero, one, or many secondary indexes.
(Contrast with the *clustered index*, which is required for each
'InnoDB' table, and stores the data for all the table columns.)

A secondary index can be used to satisfy queries that only require
values from the indexed columns.  For more complex queries, it can be
used to identify the relevant rows in the table, which are then
retrieved through lookups using the clustered index.

Creating and dropping secondary indexes has traditionally involved
significant overhead from copying all the data in the 'InnoDB' table.
The *fast index creation* feature makes both 'CREATE INDEX' and 'DROP
INDEX' statements much faster for 'InnoDB' secondary indexes.  segment

A division within an 'InnoDB' *tablespace*.  If a tablespace is
analogous to a directory, the segments are analogous to files within
that directory.  A segment can grow.  New segments can be created.

For example, within a *file-per-table* tablespace, table data is in one
segment and each associated index is in its own segment.  The *system
tablespace* contains many different segments, because it can hold many
tables and their associated indexes.  Prior to MySQL 8.0, the system
tablespace also includes one or more *rollback segments* used for *undo
logs*.

Segments grow and shrink as data is inserted and deleted.  When a
segment needs more room, it is extended by one *extent* (1 megabyte) at
a time.  Similarly, a segment releases one extent's worth of space when
all the data in that extent is no longer needed.  selectivity

A property of data distribution, the number of distinct values in a
column (its *cardinality*) divided by the number of records in the
table.  High selectivity means that the column values are relatively
unique, and can retrieved efficiently through an index.  If you (or the
query optimizer) can predict that a test in a 'WHERE' clause only
matches a small number (or proportion) of rows in a table, the overall
*query* tends to be efficient if it evaluates that test first, using an
index.  semi-consistent read

A type of read operation used for 'UPDATE' statements, that is a
combination of *READ COMMITTED* and *consistent read*.  When an 'UPDATE'
statement examines a row that is already locked, 'InnoDB' returns the
latest committed version to MySQL so that MySQL can determine whether
the row matches the 'WHERE' condition of the 'UPDATE'.  If the row
matches (must be updated), MySQL reads the row again, and this time
'InnoDB' either locks it or waits for a lock on it.  This type of read
operation can only happen when the transaction has the READ COMMITTED
*isolation level*, or when the 'innodb_locks_unsafe_for_binlog' option
is enabled.  'innodb_locks_unsafe_for_binlog' was removed in MySQL 8.0.
SERIALIZABLE

The *isolation level* that uses the most conservative locking strategy,
to prevent any other *transactions* from inserting or changing data that
was read by this transaction, until it is finished.  This way, the same
query can be run over and over within a transaction, and be certain to
retrieve the same set of results each time.  Any attempt to change data
that was committed by another transaction since the start of the current
transaction, cause the current transaction to wait.

This is the default isolation level specified by the SQL standard.  In
practice, this degree of strictness is rarely needed, so the default
isolation level for 'InnoDB' is the next most strict, *REPEATABLE READ*.
server

A type of program that runs continuously, waiting to receive and act
upon requests from another program (the *client*).  Because often an
entire computer is dedicated to running one or more server programs
(such as a database server, a web server, an application server, or some
combination of these), the term *server* can also refer to the computer
that runs the server software.  shared lock

A kind of *lock* that allows other *transactions* to read the locked
object, and to also acquire other shared locks on it, but not to write
to it.  The opposite of *exclusive lock*.  shared tablespace

Another way of referring to the *system tablespace* or a *general
tablespace*.  General tablespaces were introduced in MySQL 5.7.  More
than one table can reside in a shared tablespace.  Only a single table
can reside in a _file-per-table_ tablespace.  sharp checkpoint

The process of *flushing* to disk all *dirty* buffer pool pages whose
redo entries are contained in certain portion of the *redo log*.  Occurs
before 'InnoDB' reuses a portion of a log file; the log files are used
in a circular fashion.  Typically occurs with write-intensive
*workloads*.  shutdown

The process of stopping the MySQL server.  By default, this process
cleans up operations for *InnoDB* tables, so 'InnoDB' can be *slow* to
shut down, but fast to start up later.  If you skip the cleanup
operations, it is *fast* to shut down but the cleanup must be performed
during the next restart.

The shutdown mode for 'InnoDB' is controlled by the
'innodb_fast_shutdown' option.  slave server

Frequently shortened to 'slave'.  A database *server* machine in a
*replication* scenario that receives changes from another server (the
*master*) and applies those same changes.  Thus it maintains the same
contents as the master, although it might lag somewhat behind.

In MySQL, slave servers are commonly used in disaster recovery, to take
the place of a master servers that fails.  They are also commonly used
for testing software upgrades and new settings, to ensure that database
configuration changes do not cause problems with performance or
reliability.

Slave servers typically have high workloads, because they process all
the *DML* (write) operations relayed from the master, as well as user
queries.  To ensure that slave servers can apply changes from the master
fast enough, they frequently have fast I/O devices and sufficient CPU
and memory to run multiple database instances on the same slave server.
For example, the master server might use hard drive storage while the
slave servers use *SSD*s.  slow query log

A type of *log* used for performance tuning of SQL statements processed
by the MySQL server.  The log information is stored in a file.  You must
enable this feature to use it.  You control which categories of 'slow'
SQL statements are logged.  For more information, see *note
slow-query-log::.

slow shutdown

A type of *shutdown* that does additional 'InnoDB' flushing operations
before completing.  Also known as a *clean shutdown*.  Specified by the
configuration parameter 'innodb_fast_shutdown=0' or the command 'SET
GLOBAL innodb_fast_shutdown=0;'.  Although the shutdown itself can take
longer, that time will be saved on the subsequent startup.  snapshot

A representation of data at a particular time, which remains the same
even as changes are *committed* by other *transactions*.  Used by
certain *isolation levels* to allow *consistent reads*.  sort buffer

The buffer used for sorting data during creation of an 'InnoDB' index.
Sort buffer size is configured using the 'innodb_sort_buffer_size'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_sort_buffer_size)
configuration option.  space ID

An identifier used to uniquely identify an 'InnoDB' *tablespace* within
a MySQL instance.  The space ID for the *system tablespace* is always
zero; this same ID applies to all tables within the system tablespace or
within a general tablespace.  Each *file-per-table* tablespace and
*general tablespace* has its own space ID.

Prior to MySQL 5.6, this hardcoded value presented difficulties in
moving 'InnoDB' tablespace files between MySQL instances.  Starting in
MySQL 5.6, you can copy tablespace files between instances by using the
*transportable tablespace* feature involving the statements 'FLUSH
TABLES ... FOR EXPORT', 'ALTER TABLE ... DISCARD TABLESPACE', and 'ALTER
TABLE ... IMPORT TABLESPACE'.  The information needed to adjust the
space ID is conveyed in the *.cfg file* which you copy along with the
tablespace.  See Importing InnoDB Tables
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-table-import.html) for
details.  sparse file

A type of file that uses file system space more efficiently by writing
metadata representing empty blocks to disk instead of writing the actual
empty space.  The 'InnoDB' *transparent page compression* feature relies
on sparse file support.  For more information, see InnoDB Page
Compression
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-page-compression.html).
spin

A type of *wait* operation that continuously tests whether a resource
becomes available.  This technique is used for resources that are
typically held only for brief periods, where it is more efficient to
wait in a 'busy loop' than to put the thread to sleep and perform a
context switch.  If the resource does not become available within a
short time, the spin loop ceases and another wait technique is used.
SQL

The Structured Query Language that is standard for performing database
operations.  Often divided into the categories *DDL*, *DML*, and
*queries*.  MySQL includes some additional statement categories such as
*replication*.  See *note language-structure:: for the building blocks
of SQL syntax, *note data-types:: for the data types to use for MySQL
table columns, *note sql-statements:: for details about SQL statements
and their associated categories, and *note functions:: for standard and
MySQL-specific functions to use in queries.  SSD

Acronym for 'solid-state drive'.  A type of storage device with
different performance characteristics than a traditional hard disk drive
(*HDD*): smaller storage capacity, faster for random reads, no moving
parts, and with a number of considerations affecting write performance.
Its performance characteristics can influence the throughput of a
*disk-bound* workload.  startup

The process of starting the MySQL server.  Typically done by one of the
programs listed in *note programs-server::.  The opposite of *shutdown*.
statement-based replication

A form of *replication* where SQL statements are sent from the *master
server* and replayed on the *slave server*.  It requires some care with
the setting for the 'innodb_autoinc_lock_mode' option, to avoid
potential timing problems with *auto-increment locking*.  statistics

Estimated values relating to each 'InnoDB' *table* and *index*, used to
construct an efficient *query execution plan*.  The main values are the
*cardinality* (number of distinct values) and the total number of table
rows or index entries.  The statistics for the table represent the data
in its *primary key* index.  The statistics for a *secondary index*
represent the rows covered by that index.

The values are estimated rather than counted precisely because at any
moment, different *transactions* can be inserting and deleting rows from
the same table.  To keep the values from being recalculated frequently,
you can enable *persistent statistics*, where the values are stored in
'InnoDB' system tables, and refreshed only when you issue an *note
'ANALYZE TABLE': analyze-table. statement.

You can control how *NULL* values are treated when calculating
statistics through the 'innodb_stats_method' configuration option.

Other types of statistics are available for database objects and
database activity through the *INFORMATION_SCHEMA* and
*PERFORMANCE_SCHEMA* tables.  stemming

The ability to search for different variations of a word based on a
common root word, such as singular and plural, or past, present, and
future verb tense.  This feature is currently supported in 'MyISAM'
*full-text search* feature but not in *FULLTEXT indexes* for 'InnoDB'
tables.  stopword

In a *FULLTEXT index*, a word that is considered common or trivial
enough that it is omitted from the *search index* and ignored in search
queries.  Different configuration settings control stopword processing
for 'InnoDB' and 'MyISAM' tables.  See *note fulltext-stopwords:: for
details.  storage engine

A component of the MySQL database that performs the low-level work of
storing, updating, and querying data.  In MySQL 5.5 and higher, *InnoDB*
is the default storage engine for new tables, superceding 'MyISAM'.
Different storage engines are designed with different tradeoffs between
factors such as memory usage versus disk usage, read speed versus write
speed, and speed versus robustness.  Each storage engine manages
specific tables, so we refer to *note 'InnoDB': innodb-storage-engine.
tables, *note 'MyISAM': myisam-storage-engine. tables, and so on.

The *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product is optimized for backing up
'InnoDB' tables.  It can also back up tables handled by 'MyISAM' and
other storage engines.  stored object

A stored program or view.  stored program

A stored routine (procedure or function), trigger, or Event Scheduler
event.  stored routine

A stored procedure or function.  strict mode

The general name for the setting controlled by the 'innodb_strict_mode'
option.  Turning on this setting causes certain conditions that are
normally treated as warnings, to be considered errors.  For example,
certain invalid combinations of options related to *file format* and
*row format*, that normally produce a warning and continue with default
values, now cause the 'CREATE TABLE' operation to fail.
'innodb_strict_mode' is enabled by default in MySQL 5.7.

MySQL also has something called strict mode.  See *note sql-mode::.
sublist

Within the list structure that represents the *buffer pool*, pages that
are relatively old and relatively new are represented by different
portions of the *list*.  A set of parameters control the size of these
portions and the dividing point between the new and old pages.  supremum
record

A *pseudo-record* in an index, representing the *gap* above the largest
value in that index.  If a transaction has a statement such as 'SELECT
... FROM ... WHERE col > 10 FOR UPDATE;', and the largest value in the
column is 20, it is a lock on the supremum record that prevents other
transactions from inserting even larger values such as 50, 100, and so
on.  surrogate key

Synonym name for *synthetic key*.  synthetic key

An indexed column, typically a *primary key*, where the values are
assigned arbitrarily.  Often done using an *auto-increment* column.  By
treating the value as completely arbitrary, you can avoid overly
restrictive rules and faulty application assumptions.  For example, a
numeric sequence representing employee numbers might have a gap if an
employee was approved for hiring but never actually joined.  Or employee
number 100 might have a later hiring date than employee number 500, if
they left the company and later rejoined.  Numeric values also produce
shorter values of predictable length.  For example, storing numeric
codes meaning 'Road', 'Boulevard', 'Expressway', and so on is more
space-efficient than repeating those strings over and over.

Also known as a *surrogate key*.  Contrast with *natural key*.  system
tablespace

One or more data files (*ibdata files*) containing metadata for
'InnoDB'-related objects (the 'InnoDB' *data dictionary*), and the
storage areas for one or more *undo logs*, the *change buffer*, and the
*doublewrite buffer*.  Depending on the 'innodb_file_per_table' setting,
it might also contain table and index data for 'InnoDB' tables.  The
data and metadata in the system tablespace apply to all *databases* in a
MySQL *instance*.

table

Each MySQL table is associated with a particular *storage engine*.
*InnoDB* tables have particular *physical* and *logical* characteristics
that affect performance, *scalability*, *backup*, administration, and
application development.

In terms of file storage, an 'InnoDB' table belongs to one of the
following tablespace types:

   * The shared 'InnoDB' *system tablespace*, which is comprised of one
     or more *ibdata files*.

   * A *file-per-table* tablespace, comprised of an individual *.ibd
     file*.

   * A shared *general tablespace*, comprised of an individual '.ibd'
     file.  General tablespaces were introduced in MySQL 5.7.6.

*'.ibd'* data files contain both table and *index* data.

'InnoDB' tables created in file-per-table tablespaces can use the
*Barracuda* file format, and Barracuda tables can use *DYNAMIC* or
*COMPRESSED* row format.  These row formats enable 'InnoDB' features
such as *compression*, efficient storage of *off-page columns*, and
large index key prefixes (see 'innodb_large_prefix').  General
tablespaces support all row formats regardless of the
'innodb_file_format' setting.

Up to MySQL 5.7.5, 'InnoDB' tables inside the system tablespace had to
use the *Antelope* file format for backward compatibility with MySQL 5.1
and earlier.  The *Antelope* file format supports *COMPACT* and
*REDUNDANT* row format.  The system tablespace supports tables that use
*DYNAMIC* row format as of MySQL 5.7.6.

The *rows* of an 'InnoDB' table are organized into an index structure
known as the *clustered index*, with entries sorted based on the
*primary key* columns of the table.  Data access is optimized for
queries that filter and sort on the primary key columns, and each index
contains a copy of the associated primary key columns for each entry.
Modifying values for any of the primary key columns is an expensive
operation.  Thus an important aspect of 'InnoDB' table design is
choosing a primary key with columns that are used in the most important
queries, and keeping the primary key short, with rarely changing values.
table lock

A lock that prevents any other *transaction* from accessing a table.
'InnoDB' makes considerable effort to make such locks unnecessary, by
using techniques such as *online DDL*, *row locks* and *consistent
reads* for processing *DML* statements and *queries*.  You can create
such a lock through SQL using the 'LOCK TABLE' statement; one of the
steps in migrating from other database systems or MySQL storage engines
is to remove such statements wherever practical.  table scantable
statisticstable type

Obsolete synonym for *storage engine*.  We refer to *note 'InnoDB':
innodb-storage-engine. tables, *note 'MyISAM': myisam-storage-engine.
tables, and so on.  tablespace

A data file that can hold data for one or more 'InnoDB' *tables* and
associated *indexes*.

The *system tablespace* contains the 'InnoDB' *data dictionary*, and
prior to MySQL 5.6 holds all other 'InnoDB' tables by default.

The 'innodb_file_per_table' option, enabled by default in MySQL 5.6 and
higher, allows tables to be created in their own tablespaces.
File-per-table tablespaces support features such as efficient storage of
*off-page columns*, table compression, and transportable tablespaces.
See *note innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces:: for details.

'InnoDB' introduced general tablespaces in MySQL 5.7.6.  General
tablespaces are shared tablespaces created using *note 'CREATE
TABLESPACE': create-tablespace. syntax.  They can be created outside of
the MySQL data directory, are capable of holding multiple tables, and
support tables of all row formats.

MySQL NDB Cluster also groups its tables into tablespaces.  See *note
mysql-cluster-disk-data-objects:: for details.  temporary table

A *table* whose data does not need to be truly permanent.  For example,
temporary tables might be used as storage areas for intermediate results
in complicated calculations or transformations; this intermediate data
would not need to be recovered after a crash.  Database products can
take various shortcuts to improve the performance of operations on
temporary tables, by being less scrupulous about writing data to disk
and other measures to protect the data across restarts.

Sometimes, the data itself is removed automatically at a set time, such
as when the transaction ends or when the session ends.  With some
database products, the table itself is removed automatically too.
temporary tablespace

The tablespace for non-compressed 'InnoDB' *temporary tables* and
related objects, introduced in MySQL 5.7.  The
'innodb_temp_data_file_path'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_temp_data_file_path)
configuration file option defines the relative path, name, size, and
attributes for temporary tablespace data files.  If
'innodb_temp_data_file_path'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_temp_data_file_path)
is not specified, the default behavior is to create a single
auto-extending 12MB data file named 'ibtmp1' in the data directory.  The
temporary tablespace is recreated on each server start and receives a
dynamically generated space ID. The temporary tablespace cannot reside
on a raw device.  Startup is refused if the temporary tablespace cannot
be created.

The temporary tablespace is removed on normal shutdown or on an aborted
initialization.  The temporary tablespace is not removed when a crash
occurs.  In this case, the database administrator may remove the
temporary tablespace manually or restart the server with the same
configuration, which removes and recreates the temporary tablespace.
text collection

The set of columns included in a *FULLTEXT index*.  thread

A unit of processing that is typically more lightweight than a
*process*, allowing for greater *concurrency*.  torn page

An error condition that can occur due to a combination of I/O device
configuration and hardware failure.  If data is written out in chunks
smaller than the 'InnoDB' *page size* (by default, 16KB), a hardware
failure while writing could result in only part of a page being stored
to disk.  The 'InnoDB' *doublewrite buffer* guards against this
possibility.  TPS

Acronym for '*transactions* per second', a unit of measurement sometimes
used in benchmarks.  Its value depends on the *workload* represented by
a particular benchmark test, combined with factors that you control such
as the hardware capacity and database configuration.  transaction

Transactions are atomic units of work that can be *committed* or *rolled
back*.  When a transaction makes multiple changes to the database,
either all the changes succeed when the transaction is committed, or all
the changes are undone when the transaction is rolled back.

Database transactions, as implemented by 'InnoDB', have properties that
are collectively known by the acronym *ACID*, for atomicity,
consistency, isolation, and durability.  transaction ID

An internal field associated with each *row*.  This field is physically
changed by *note 'INSERT': insert, *note 'UPDATE': update, and *note
'DELETE': delete. operations to record which *transaction* has locked
the row.  transparent page compression

A feature added in MySQL 5.7.8 that permits page-level compression for
'InnoDB' tables that reside in *file-per-table* tablespaces.  Page
compression is enabled by specifying the 'COMPRESSION' attribute with
*note 'CREATE TABLE': create-table. or *note 'ALTER TABLE': alter-table.
For more information, see InnoDB Page Compression
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-page-compression.html).
transportable tablespace

A feature that allows a *tablespace* to be moved from one instance to
another.  Traditionally, this has not been possible for 'InnoDB'
tablespaces because all table data was part of the *system tablespace*.
In MySQL 5.6 and higher, the 'FLUSH TABLES ... FOR EXPORT'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/flush.html#flush-tables-for-export-with-list)
syntax prepares an 'InnoDB' table for copying to another server; running
*note 'ALTER TABLE ... DISCARD TABLESPACE': alter-table. and *note
'ALTER TABLE ... IMPORT TABLESPACE': alter-table. on the other server
brings the copied data file into the other instance.  A separate *.cfg
file*, copied along with the *.ibd file*, is used to update the table
metadata (for example the *space ID*) as the tablespace is imported.
See Importing InnoDB Tables
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-table-import.html) for
usage information.  .TRG file

A file containing trigger parameters.  Files with this extension are
always included in backups produced by the 'mysqlbackup' command of the
*MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  .TRN file

A file containing trigger namespace information.  Files with this
extension are always included in backups produced by the 'mysqlbackup'
command of the *MySQL Enterprise Backup* product.  troubleshooting

The process of determining the source of a problem.  Some of the
resources for troubleshooting MySQL problems include:

   * *note starting-server-troubleshooting::

   * *note problems-connecting::

   * *note resetting-permissions::

   * *note common-errors::

   * *note innodb-troubleshooting::.
truncate

A *DDL* operation that removes the entire contents of a table, while
leaving the table and related indexes intact.  Contrast with *drop*.
Although conceptually it has the same result as a 'DELETE' statement
with no 'WHERE' clause, it operates differently behind the scenes:
'InnoDB' creates a new empty table, drops the old table, then renames
the new table to take the place of the old one.  Because this is a DDL
operation, it cannot be *rolled back*.

If the table being truncated contains *foreign keys* that reference
another table, the truncation operation uses a slower method of
operation, deleting one row at a time so that corresponding rows in the
referenced table can be deleted as needed by any 'ON DELETE CASCADE'
clause.  (MySQL 5.5 and higher do not allow this slower form of
truncate, and return an error instead if foreign keys are involved.  In
this case, use a 'DELETE' statement instead.  tuple

A technical term designating an ordered set of elements.  It is an
abstract notion, used in formal discussions of database theory.  In the
database field, tuples are usually represented by the columns of a table
row.  They could also be represented by the result sets of queries, for
example, queries that retrieved only some columns of a table, or columns
from joined tables.  two-phase commit

An operation that is part of a distributed *transaction*, under the *XA*
specification.  (Sometimes abbreviated as 2PC.) When multiple databases
participate in the transaction, either all databases *commit* the
changes, or all databases *roll back* the changes.

undo

Data that is maintained throughout the life of a *transaction*,
recording all changes so that they can be undone in case of a *rollback*
operation.  It is stored in *undo logs* either within the *system
tablespace* (in MySQL 5.7 or earlier) or in separate *undo tablespaces*.
As of MySQL 8.0, undo logs reside in undo tablespaces by default.  undo
bufferundo log

A storage area that holds copies of data modified by active
*transactions*.  If another transaction needs to see the original data
(as part of a *consistent read* operation), the unmodified data is
retrieved from this storage area.

In MySQL 5.6 and MySQL 5.7, you can use the 'innodb_undo_tablespaces'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_undo_tablespaces)
variable have undo logs reside in *undo tablespaces*, which can be
placed on another storage device such as an *SSD*. In MySQL 8.0, undo
logs reside in two default undo tablespaces that are created when MySQL
is initialized, and additional undo tablespaces can be created using
*note 'CREATE UNDO TABLESPACE': create-tablespace. syntax.

The undo log is split into separate portions, the *insert undo buffer*
and the *update undo buffer*.  undo log segment

A collection of *undo logs*.  Undo log segments exists within *rollback
segments*.  An undo log segment might contain undo logs from multiple
transactions.  An undo log segment can only be used by one transaction
at a time but can be reused after it is released at transaction *commit*
or *rollback*.  May also be referred to as an 'undo segment'.  undo
tablespace

An undo tablespace contains *undo logs*.  Undo logs exist within *undo
log segments*, which are contained within *rollback segments*.  Rollback
segments have traditionally resided in the system tablespace.  As of
MySQL 5.6, rollback segments can reside in undo tablespaces.  In MySQL
5.6 and MySQL 5.7, the number of undo tablespaces is controlled by the
'innodb_undo_tablespaces'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_undo_tablespaces)
configuration option.  In MySQL 8.0, two default undo tablespaces are
created when the MySQL instance is initialized, and additional undo
tablespaces can be created using *note 'CREATE UNDO TABLESPACE':
create-tablespace. syntax.

For more information, see Undo Tablespaces
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-undo-tablespaces.html).
unique constraint

A kind of *constraint* that asserts that a column cannot contain any
duplicate values.  In terms of *relational* algebra, it is used to
specify 1-to-1 relationships.  For efficiency in checking whether a
value can be inserted (that is, the value does not already exist in the
column), a unique constraint is supported by an underlying *unique
index*.  unique index

An index on a column or set of columns that have a *unique constraint*.
Because the index is known not to contain any duplicate values, certain
kinds of lookups and count operations are more efficient than in the
normal kind of index.  Most of the lookups against this type of index
are simply to determine if a certain value exists or not.  The number of
values in the index is the same as the number of rows in the table, or
at least the number of rows with non-null values for the associated
columns.

*Change buffering* optimization does not apply to unique indexes.  As a
workaround, you can temporarily set 'unique_checks=0' while doing a bulk
data load into an 'InnoDB' table.  unique key

The set of columns (one or more) comprising a *unique index*.  When you
can define a 'WHERE' condition that matches exactly one row, and the
query can use an associated unique index, the lookup and error handling
can be performed very efficiently.

variable-length type

A data type of variable length.  *note 'VARCHAR': char, *note
'VARBINARY': binary-varbinary, and *note 'BLOB': blob. and *note 'TEXT':
blob. types are variable-length types.

'InnoDB' treats fixed-length fields greater than or equal to 768 bytes
in length as variable-length fields, which can be stored *off-page*.
For example, a 'CHAR(255)' column can exceed 768 bytes if the maximum
byte length of the character set is greater than 3, as it is with
'utf8mb4'.  victim

The *transaction* that is automatically chosen to be *rolled back* when
a *deadlock* is detected.  'InnoDB' rolls back the transaction that has
updated the fewest rows.

*Deadlock detection* can be disabled using the 'innodb_deadlock_detect'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_deadlock_detect)
configuration option.  view

A stored query that when invoked produces a result set.  A view acts as
a virtual table.

wait

When an operation, such as acquiring a *lock*, *mutex*, or *latch*,
cannot be completed immediately, 'InnoDB' pauses and tries again.  The
mechanism for pausing is elaborate enough that this operation has its
own name, the *wait*.  Individual threads are paused using a combination
of internal 'InnoDB' scheduling, operating system 'wait()' calls, and
short-duration *spin* loops.

On systems with heavy load and many transactions, you might use the
output from the 'SHOW INNODB STATUS' command or *Performance Schema* to
determine whether threads are spending too much time waiting, and if so,
how you can improve *concurrency*.  warm backup

A *backup* taken while the database is running, but that restricts some
database operations during the backup process.  For example, tables
might become read-only.  For busy applications and websites, you might
prefer a *hot backup*.  warm up

To run a system under a typical *workload* for some time after startup,
so that the *buffer pool* and other memory regions are filled as they
would be under normal conditions.  This process happens naturally over
time when a MySQL server is restarted or subjected to a new workload.

Typically, you run a workload for some time to warm up the buffer pool
before running performance tests, to ensure consistent results across
multiple runs; otherwise, performance might be artificially low during
the first run.

In MySQL 5.6, you can speed up the warmup process by enabling the
'innodb_buffer_pool_dump_at_shutdown'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_buffer_pool_dump_at_shutdown)
and 'innodb_buffer_pool_load_at_startup'
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-parameters.html#sysvar_innodb_buffer_pool_load_at_startup)
configuration options, to bring the contents of the buffer pool back
into memory after a restart.  These options are enabled by default in
MySQL 5.7.  See Saving and Restoring the Buffer Pool State
(https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.6/en/innodb-preload-buffer-pool.html).
workload

The combination and volume of *SQL* and other database operations,
performed by a database application during typical or peak usage.  You
can subject the database to a particular workload during performance
testing to identify *bottlenecks*, or during capacity planning.  write
combining

An optimization technique that reduces write operations when *dirty
pages* are *flushed* from the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool*.  If a row in a
page is updated multiple times, or multiple rows on the same page are
updated, all of those changes are stored to the data files in a single
write operation rather than one write for each change.

XA

A standard interface for coordinating distributed *transactions*,
allowing multiple databases to participate in a transaction while
maintaining *ACID* compliance.  For full details, see *note xa::.

XA Distributed Transaction support is enabled by default.  If you are
not using this feature, you can disable the 'innodb_support_xa'
configuration option, avoiding the performance overhead of an extra
fsync for each transaction.

As of MySQL 5.7.10, disabling 'innodb_support_xa' is not permitted as it
makes replication unsafe and prevents performance gains associated with
*binary log* group commit.  The 'innodb_support_xa' configuration option
is removed in MySQL 8.0.

young

A characteristic of a *page* in the 'InnoDB' *buffer pool* meaning it
has been accessed recently, and so is moved within the buffer pool data
structure, so that it will not be *flushed* soon by the *LRU* algorithm.
This term is used in some *INFORMATION_SCHEMA* column names of tables
related to the buffer pool.

 [index ]
* Menu:

* ! (logical NOT):                       logical-operators.  (line   34)
* != (not equal):                        comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  129)
* ":                                     identifiers.        (line   22)
* #mysql50 identifier prefix:            identifiers.        (line  109)
* #mysql50 identifier prefix <1>:        identifier-mapping. (line   97)
* %:                                     arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line  141)
* % (modulo):                            mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  350)
* % (wildcard character):                string-literals.    (line   94)
* & (bitwise AND):                       bit-functions.      (line   47)
* && (logical AND):                      logical-operators.  (line   54)
* () (parentheses):                      operator-precedence.
                                                             (line   52)
* (Control+Z) \Z:                        string-literals.    (line   92)
* (Control+Z) \Z <1>:                    load-data.          (line  451)
* * (multiplication):                    arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   93)
* + (addition):                          arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   62)
* - (subtraction):                       arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   70)
* - (unary minus):                       arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   78)
* -? option (NDB Cluster programs):      mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  201)
* -c option (NDB Cluster programs):      mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  212)
* -c option (ndb_mgmd) (OBSOLETE):       mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  228)
* -d option (ndb_index_stat):            mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat.
                                                             (line  187)
* -d option (ndb_mgmd):                  mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  140)
* -disable option prefix:                option-modifiers.   (line    6)
* -e option (ndb_mgm):                   mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm.
                                                             (line   51)
* -enable option prefix:                 option-modifiers.   (line    6)
* -f option (ndb_mgmd):                  mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  228)
* -l option (ndbinfo_select_all):        mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all.
                                                             (line  103)
* -loose option prefix:                  option-modifiers.   (line    6)
* -maximum option prefix:                option-modifiers.   (line    6)
* -n option (ndbd):                      mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  382)
* -n option (ndbmtd):                    mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  382)
* -p option:                             password-security-user.
                                                             (line   18)
* -P option (ndb_mgmd):                  mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  551)
* -password option:                      password-security-user.
                                                             (line   17)
* -skip option prefix:                   option-modifiers.   (line    6)
* -V option (NDB Cluster programs):      mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  317)
* -v option (ndb_mgmd):                  mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  629)
* .ARM file:                             glossary.           (line  102)
* .ARZ file:                             glossary.           (line  107)
* .cfg file:                             glossary.           (line  411)
* .frm file:                             create-table-files. (line    6)
* .frm file <1>:                         glossary.           (line 1173)
* .ibd file:                             create-table-files. (line    6)
* .ibd file <1>:                         glossary.           (line 1392)
* .ibz file:                             glossary.           (line 1434)
* .isl file:                             glossary.           (line 1692)
* .MRG file:                             glossary.           (line 1989)
* .my.cnf option file:                   option-files.       (line    6)
* .my.cnf option file <1>:               option-files.       (line   91)
* .my.cnf option file <2>:               connecting.         (line  182)
* .my.cnf option file <3>:               multiple-server-clients.
                                                             (line   40)
* .my.cnf option file <4>:               password-security-user.
                                                             (line   63)
* .my.cnf option file <5>:               problems-connecting.
                                                             (line  100)
* .MYD file:                             create-table-files. (line    6)
* .MYD file <1>:                         glossary.           (line 2022)
* .MYI file:                             create-table-files. (line    6)
* .MYI file <1>:                         glossary.           (line 2025)
* .mysql_history file:                   mysql-logging.      (line    6)
* .mysql_history file <1>:               password-security-user.
                                                             (line   91)
* .OPT file:                             glossary.           (line 2242)
* .par file:                             glossary.           (line 2342)
* .pid (process ID) file:                myisam-maintenance-schedule.
                                                             (line   17)
* .TRG file:                             glossary.           (line 3324)
* .TRN file:                             glossary.           (line 3328)
* / (division):                          arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line  109)
* /etc/passwd:                           security-against-attack.
                                                             (line   85)
* /etc/passwd <1>:                       select-into.        (line   59)
* := (assignment operator):              assignment-operators.
                                                             (line   17)
* := (assignment):                       user-variables.     (line    6)
* < (less than):                         comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  157)
* << (left shift):                       calculating-days.   (line    6)
* << (left shift) <1>:                   bit-functions.      (line   71)
* <= (less than or equal):               comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  145)
* <=> (equal to):                        comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  109)
* <> (not equal):                        comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  128)
* = (assignment operator):               assignment-operators.
                                                             (line   73)
* = (assignment):                        user-variables.     (line    6)
* = (equal):                             comparison-operators.
                                                             (line   88)
* > (greater than):                      comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  181)
* >= (greater than or equal):            comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  169)
* >> (right shift):                      bit-functions.      (line   84)
* [api] (NDB Cluster):                   mysql-cluster-params-api.
                                                             (line    6)
* [computer] (NDB Cluster):              mysql-cluster-params-other.
                                                             (line    6)
* [mgm] (NDB Cluster):                   mysql-cluster-params-mgmd.
                                                             (line    6)
* [mysqld] (NDB Cluster):                mysql-cluster-params-api.
                                                             (line    6)
* [ndbd default] (NDB Cluster):          mysql-cluster-params-ndbd.
                                                             (line    6)
* [ndbd] (NDB Cluster):                  mysql-cluster-params-ndbd.
                                                             (line    6)
* [ndb_mgmd] (NDB Cluster):              mysql-cluster-params-mgmd.
                                                             (line    6)
* [sci] (NDB Cluster):                   mysql-cluster-params-other.
                                                             (line    6)
* [shm] (NDB Cluster):                   mysql-cluster-params-other.
                                                             (line    6)
* [tcp] (NDB Cluster):                   mysql-cluster-params-other.
                                                             (line    6)
* \" (double quote):                     string-literals.    (line   80)
* \' (single quote):                     string-literals.    (line   78)
* \. (mysql client command):             batch-mode.         (line   91)
* \. (mysql client command) <1>:         mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* \0 (ASCII NUL):                        string-literals.    (line   76)
* \0 (ASCII NUL) <1>:                    load-data.          (line  439)
* \b (backspace):                        string-literals.    (line   82)
* \b (backspace) <1>:                    load-data.          (line  441)
* \n (linefeed):                         string-literals.    (line   86)
* \n (linefeed) <1>:                     load-data.          (line  445)
* \n (newline):                          string-literals.    (line   84)
* \n (newline) <1>:                      load-data.          (line  443)
* \N (NULL):                             load-data.          (line  451)
* \r (carriage return):                  string-literals.    (line   86)
* \r (carriage return) <1>:              load-data.          (line  445)
* \t (tab):                              string-literals.    (line   88)
* \t (tab) <1>:                          load-data.          (line  447)
* \Z (Control+Z) ASCII 26:               string-literals.    (line   90)
* \Z (Control+Z) ASCII 26 <1>:           load-data.          (line  449)
* \\ (escape):                           string-literals.    (line   92)
* ^ (bitwise XOR):                       bit-functions.      (line   57)
* _ (wildcard character):                string-literals.    (line   96)
* _ai collation sufffix:                 charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* _as collation sufffix:                 charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* _bin collation sufffix:                charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* _bin collation sufffix <1>:            charset-binary-collations.
                                                             (line    6)
* _ci collation sufffix:                 charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* _cs collation sufffix:                 charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* _rowid, SELECT statements:             create-index.       (line  118)
* _rowid, SELECT statements <1>:         create-table.       (line  482)
* _rowid, SELECT statements <2>:         create-table.       (line  510)
* ':                                     identifiers.        (line   22)
* | (bitwise OR):                        bit-functions.      (line   37)
* || (logical OR):                       logical-operators.  (line   72)
* ~ (invert bits):                       bit-functions.      (line   97)
* abort-on-error option, ndb_move_data:  mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line   78)
* abort-slave-event-count option, mysqld: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line   41)
* aborted clients:                       communication-errors.
                                                             (line    6)
* aborted connection:                    communication-errors.
                                                             (line    6)
* ABS():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line   84)
* access control:                        access-control.     (line   23)
* access control <1>:                    connection-access.  (line    6)
* access denied errors:                  error-access-denied.
                                                             (line    6)
* access privileges:                     access-control.     (line   23)
* account management:                    access-control.     (line   23)
* account names:                         account-names.      (line    6)
* accounts, adding privileges:           creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* accounts, anonymous user:              default-privileges. (line    6)
* accounts, creating:                    creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* accounts, default:                     default-privileges. (line    6)
* accounts, deleting:                    creating-accounts.  (line  219)
* accounts, root:                        default-privileges. (line    6)
* ACID:                                  innodb-introduction.
                                                             (line   16)
* ACID <1>:                              mysql-acid.         (line    6)
* ACID <2>:                              glossary.           (line   13)
* ACLs:                                  access-control.     (line   23)
* ACOS():                                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line   97)
* activating plugins:                    plugin-loading.     (line    6)
* ActiveState Perl:                      activestate-perl.   (line    6)
* adaptive flushing:                     glossary.           (line   46)
* adaptive hash index:                   innodb-adaptive-hash.
                                                             (line    6)
* adaptive hash index <1>:               glossary.           (line   54)
* add-drop-database option, mysqldump:   mysqldump.          (line  508)
* add-drop-table option, mysqldump:      mysqldump.          (line  518)
* add-drop-trigger option, mysqldump:    mysqldump.          (line  524)
* add-locks option, mysqldump:           mysqldump.          (line  536)
* ADDDATE():                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  213)
* adding, character sets:                adding-character-set.
                                                             (line   12)
* adding, functions:                     adding-functions.   (line   12)
* adding, native functions:              adding-native-function.
                                                             (line    6)
* adding, new account privileges:        creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* adding, new user privileges:           creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* adding, new users:                     starting-server.    (line   44)
* adding, user-defined functions:        adding-udf.         (line    6)
* addition (+):                          arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   63)
* ADDTIME():                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  232)
* addtodest option, mysqlhotcopy:        mysqlhotcopy.       (line  106)
* administration of NDB Cluster:         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm.
                                                             (line    6)
* administration, server:                mysqladmin.         (line    6)
* administrative programs:               programs-overview.  (line  162)
* AES_DECRYPT():                         encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  109)
* AES_ENCRYPT():                         encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  116)
* After create, thread state:            general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   11)
* age, calculating:                      date-calculations.  (line    6)
* AIO:                                   glossary.           (line   79)
* alias names, case sensitivity:         identifier-case-sensitivity.
                                                             (line    6)
* aliases, for expressions:              group-by-handling.  (line   82)
* aliases, for tables:                   select.             (line  168)
* aliases, in GROUP BY clauses:          group-by-handling.  (line   82)
* aliases, names:                        identifiers.        (line   14)
* aliases, on expressions:               select.             (line  112)
* ALL:                                   all-subqueries.     (line    6)
* ALL join type, optimizer:              explain-output.     (line  427)
* ALL privilege:                         privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  141)
* ALL PRIVILEGES privilege:              privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  141)
* ALL, SELECT modifier:                  select.             (line  386)
* all-databases option, mysqlcheck:      mysqlcheck.         (line  241)
* all-databases option, mysqldump:       mysqldump.          (line  544)
* all-in-1 option, mysqlcheck:           mysqlcheck.         (line  250)
* all-tablespaces option, mysqldump:     mysqldump.          (line  551)
* allocating local table, thread state:  delayed-insert-thread-states.
                                                             (line   17)
* allow-keywords option, mysqldump:      mysqldump.          (line  560)
* allow-suspicious-udfs option, mysqld:  server-options.     (line  117)
* allowold option, mysqlhotcopy:         mysqlhotcopy.       (line  112)
* ALLOW_INVALID_DATES SQL mode:          sql-mode.           (line  128)
* ALTER COLUMN:                          alter-table.        (line  479)
* ALTER DATABASE:                        alter-database.     (line    6)
* ALTER EVENT:                           alter-event.        (line    6)
* ALTER EVENT, and replication:          replication-features-invoked.
                                                             (line   48)
* ALTER FUNCTION:                        alter-function.     (line    6)
* ALTER LOGFILE GROUP:                   alter-logfile-group.
                                                             (line    6)
* ALTER privilege:                       privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  148)
* ALTER PROCEDURE:                       alter-procedure.    (line    6)
* ALTER ROUTINE privilege:               privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  156)
* ALTER SCHEMA:                          alter-database.     (line    6)
* ALTER SERVER:                          alter-server.       (line    6)
* ALTER TABLE:                           alter-table.        (line   11)
* ALTER TABLE <1>:                       alter-table.        (line  530)
* ALTER TABLE <2>:                       alter-table-problems.
                                                             (line    6)
* ALTER TABLE, ROW_FORMAT:               innodb-row-format.  (line  328)
* ALTER TABLESPACE:                      alter-tablespace.   (line    6)
* ALTER VIEW:                            alter-view.         (line    6)
* altering, database:                    alter-database.     (line    6)
* altering, schema:                      alter-database.     (line    6)
* ANALYSE(), PROCEDURE:                  procedure-analyse.  (line    8)
* analyze option, myisamchk:             myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   10)
* analyze option, mysqlcheck:            mysqlcheck.         (line  257)
* ANALYZE TABLE statement:               analyze-table.      (line    6)
* ANALYZE TABLE, and partitioning:       partitioning-maintenance.
                                                             (line    6)
* Analyzing, thread state:               general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   19)
* AND, bitwise:                          bit-functions.      (line   48)
* AND, logical:                          logical-operators.  (line   53)
* anonymous user:                        default-privileges. (line    6)
* anonymous user <1>:                    default-privileges. (line   42)
* anonymous user <2>:                    connection-access.  (line   25)
* anonymous user <3>:                    request-access.     (line   26)
* ANSI mode, running:                    compatibility.      (line   71)
* ansi option, mysqld:                   server-options.     (line  136)
* ANSI SQL mode:                         sql-mode.           (line   88)
* ANSI SQL mode <1>:                     sql-mode.           (line  503)
* ANSI_QUOTES SQL mode:                  sql-mode.           (line  147)
* Antelope:                              glossary.           (line   82)
* Antelope file format:                  innodb-file-format. (line   13)
* Antelope file format <1>:              innodb-parameters.  (line  969)
* ANY:                                   any-in-some-subqueries.
                                                             (line    6)
* Apache:                                apache.             (line    6)
* API node (NDB Cluster), defined:       mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line    6)
* API nodes:                             mysql-cluster-mysqld.
                                                             (line    6)
* APIs:                                  connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* APIs, list of:                         packages.           (line    6)
* APIs, Perl:                            apis-perl.          (line    6)
* append option, ndb_restore:            mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  332)
* application programming interface (API): glossary.         (line   87)
* apply:                                 glossary.           (line   91)
* apply-slave-statements option, mysqldump: mysqldump.       (line  566)
* apply_status table (OBSOLETE):         mysql-cluster-replication-schema.
                                                             (line   84)
* approximate-value literals:            precision-math.     (line   14)
* approximate-value numeric literals:    number-literals.    (line    6)
* approximate-value numeric literals <1>: precision-math-numbers.
                                                             (line    6)
* Arbitration:                           mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3070)
* ArbitrationDelay:                      mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  289)
* ArbitrationDelay <1>:                  mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  222)
* ArbitrationRank:                       mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  245)
* ArbitrationRank <1>:                   mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  189)
* ArbitrationTimeout:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3045)
* arbitrator_validity_detail, ndbinfo table: mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-arbitrator-validity-detail.
                                                             (line    6)
* arbitrator_validity_summary, ndbinfo table: mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-arbitrator-validity-summary.
                                                             (line    6)
* ARCHIVE storage engine:                storage-engines.    (line   20)
* ARCHIVE storage engine <1>:            archive-storage-engine.
                                                             (line    6)
* Area():                                gis-polygon-property-functions.
                                                             (line    9)
* argument processing:                   adding-udf.         (line  352)
* arithmetic expressions:                arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   62)
* arithmetic functions:                  bit-functions.      (line    6)
* arithmetic operators:                  bit-functions.      (line    6)
* AS:                                    select.             (line  142)
* AS <1>:                                join.               (line    6)
* AsBinary():                            gis-format-conversion-functions.
                                                             (line   15)
* ASCII():                               string-functions.   (line  162)
* ASIN():                                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  110)
* assignment operator, :=:               assignment-operators.
                                                             (line   18)
* assignment operator, =:                assignment-operators.
                                                             (line   74)
* assignment operators:                  assignment-operators.
                                                             (line    6)
* AsText():                              gis-format-conversion-functions.
                                                             (line   25)
* asynchronous I/O:                      innodb-linux-native-aio.
                                                             (line    6)
* asynchronous I/O <1>:                  glossary.           (line  111)
* asynchronous replication:              mysql-cluster-replication.
                                                             (line   20)
* ATAN():                                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  134)
* ATAN2():                               mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  145)
* atomic:                                glossary.           (line  125)
* atomic DDL:                            glossary.           (line  130)
* atomic instruction:                    glossary.           (line  139)
* attackers, security against:           security-against-attack.
                                                             (line    6)
* attribute demotion, replication:       replication-features-different-data-types.
                                                             (line    6)
* attribute promotion, replication:      replication-features-different-data-types.
                                                             (line    6)
* audit plugins:                         plugin-types.       (line  171)
* audit-log option, mysqld:              audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* audit_log plugin:                      audit-log.          (line   17)
* audit_log plugin, installing:          audit-log-installation.
                                                             (line    6)
* audit_log plugin, startup failure:     audit-log-logging-control.
                                                             (line   39)
* audit_log_buffer_size system variable: audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line   62)
* audit_log_file system variable:        audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line  100)
* audit_log_flush system variable:       audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line  129)
* audit_log_format system variable:      audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line  154)
* audit_log_policy system variable:      audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line  187)
* audit_log_rotate_on_size system variable: audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line  225)
* audit_log_strategy system variable:    audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line  267)
* authentication plugin, authentication_pam: pam-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, authentication_windows: windows-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, authentication_windows_client: windows-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, auth_socket:    socket-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, auth_test_plugin: test-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, mysql_clear_password: cleartext-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, mysql_native_password: native-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, mysql_old_password: old-native-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugin, test_plugin_server: test-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication plugins:                plugin-types.       (line  208)
* authentication_pam authentication plugin: pam-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* AUTHENTICATION_PAM_LOG environment variable: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* AUTHENTICATION_PAM_LOG environment variable <1>: pam-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line  741)
* authentication_windows authentication plugin: windows-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication_windows_client authentication plugin: windows-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* authentication_windows_log_level system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line   96)
* authentication_windows_use_principal_name system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  141)
* auth_socket authentication plugin:     socket-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* auth_test_plugin authentication plugin: test-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* auto-generate-sql option, mysqlslap:   mysqlslap.          (line  243)
* auto-generate-sql-add-autoincrement option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  249)
* auto-generate-sql-execute-number option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  254)
* auto-generate-sql-guid-primary option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  259)
* auto-generate-sql-load-type option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.  (line  264)
* auto-generate-sql-secondary-indexes option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  272)
* auto-generate-sql-unique-query-number option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  278)
* auto-generate-sql-unique-write-number option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  287)
* auto-generate-sql-write-number option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.
                                                             (line  293)
* auto-inc lock:                         innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* auto-increment:                        innodb-auto-increment-handling.
                                                             (line    6)
* auto-increment <1>:                    innodb-auto-increment-handling.
                                                             (line   29)
* auto-increment <2>:                    innodb-auto-increment-handling.
                                                             (line  442)
* auto-increment <3>:                    innodb-auto-increment-handling.
                                                             (line  492)
* auto-increment <4>:                    glossary.           (line  142)
* auto-increment locking:                glossary.           (line  170)
* auto-rehash option, mysql:             mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  241)
* auto-repair option, mysqlcheck:        mysqlcheck.         (line  262)
* auto-vertical-output option, mysql:    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  262)
* autocommit:                            glossary.           (line  180)
* autocommit mode:                       innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback.
                                                             (line    6)
* autocommit system variable:            server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  187)
* automatic_sp_privileges system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  238)
* AutoReconnect, API and SQL nodes:      mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  405)
* AUTO_INCREMENT:                        example-auto-increment.
                                                             (line    6)
* AUTO_INCREMENT <1>:                    numeric-type-attributes.
                                                             (line    6)
* AUTO_INCREMENT, and NULL values:       problems-with-null. (line   71)
* AUTO_INCREMENT, and replication:       replication-features-auto-increment.
                                                             (line    6)
* auto_increment_increment system variable: replication-options-master.
                                                             (line   48)
* auto_increment_offset system variable: replication-options-master.
                                                             (line  251)
* availability:                          glossary.           (line  189)
* AVG():                                 group-by-functions. (line   83)
* AVG(DISTINCT):                         group-by-functions. (line   84)
* B-tree:                                glossary.           (line  197)
* B-tree indexes:                        index-btree-hash.   (line    6)
* B-tree indexes <1>:                    innodb-physical-structure.
                                                             (line    6)
* background threads:                    innodb-configuring-io-capacity.
                                                             (line    6)
* background threads, read:              innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads.
                                                             (line    6)
* background threads, write:             innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads.
                                                             (line    6)
* backslash, escape character:           string-literals.    (line    6)
* backspace (\b):                        string-literals.    (line   84)
* backspace (\b) <1>:                    load-data.          (line  443)
* backticks:                             glossary.           (line  221)
* backup:                                glossary.           (line  234)
* BACKUP Events (NDB Cluster):           mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line  373)
* backup identifiers, native backup and restore: mysql-cluster-backup-using-management-client.
                                                             (line   98)
* backup option, myisamchk:              myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   11)
* backup option, myisampack:             myisampack.         (line   56)
* BackupDataBufferSize:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3649)
* BackupDataBufferSize <1>:              mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line    8)
* BackupDataDir:                         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  382)
* backupid option, ndb_restore:          mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  402)
* BackupLogBufferSize:                   mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3679)
* BackupLogBufferSize <1>:               mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line   14)
* BackupMaxWriteSize:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3801)
* BackupMaxWriteSize <1>:                mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line   33)
* BackupMemory:                          mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3720)
* BackupMemory <1>:                      mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line   20)
* BackupReportFrequency:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3750)
* backups:                               backup-and-recovery.
                                                             (line   15)
* backups <1>:                           mysql-enterprise-backup.
                                                             (line    6)
* backups, databases and tables:         mysqldump.          (line    6)
* backups, databases and tables <1>:     mysqlhotcopy.       (line    6)
* backups, in NDB Cluster:               mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line   10)
* backups, in NDB Cluster <1>:           mysql-cluster-backup.
                                                             (line   13)
* backups, in NDB Cluster <2>:           mysql-cluster-backup-concepts.
                                                             (line    6)
* backups, in NDB Cluster <3>:           mysql-cluster-backup-using-management-client.
                                                             (line    6)
* backups, in NDB Cluster <4>:           mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line    6)
* backups, in NDB Cluster replication:   mysql-cluster-replication-backups.
                                                             (line   11)
* backups, InnoDB:                       innodb-backup.      (line    6)
* backups, troubleshooting, in NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-backup-troubleshooting.
                                                             (line    6)
* backups, with mysqldump:               using-mysqldump.    (line   14)
* BackupWriteSize:                       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3778)
* BackupWriteSize <1>:                   mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line   27)
* backup_path option, ndb_restore:       mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  344)
* back_log system variable:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  271)
* Barracuda:                             glossary.           (line  249)
* Barracuda file format:                 innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* Barracuda file format <1>:             innodb-file-format. (line   13)
* Barracuda file format <2>:             innodb-parameters.  (line  969)
* base64-output option, mysqlbinlog:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  235)
* basedir option, mysql.server:          mysql-server.       (line  133)
* basedir option, mysqld:                server-options.     (line  148)
* basedir option, mysqld_safe:           mysqld-safe.        (line  116)
* basedir option, mysql_install_db:      mysql-install-db.   (line   94)
* basedir option, mysql_plugin:          mysql-plugin.       (line  107)
* basedir option, mysql_upgrade:         mysql-upgrade.      (line  233)
* basedir system variable:               server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  310)
* batch mode:                            batch-mode.         (line    6)
* batch option, mysql:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  269)
* batch SQL files:                       mysql.              (line   15)
* BatchByteSize:                         mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  245)
* batched updates (NDB Cluster Replication): mysql-cluster-replication-starting.
                                                             (line   76)
* BatchSize:                             mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  276)
* BatchSizePerLocalScan:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1138)
* BEGIN:                                 commit.             (line    6)
* BEGIN <1>:                             begin-end.          (line    6)
* BEGIN, labels:                         statement-labels.   (line    6)
* BEGIN, XA transactions:                xa-statements.      (line    6)
* BENCHMARK():                           information-functions.
                                                             (line   50)
* benchmarks:                            mysql-benchmarks.   (line    6)
* benchmarks <1>:                        custom-benchmarks.  (line    6)
* beta:                                  glossary.           (line  257)
* BETWEEN ... AND:                       comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  193)
* big5:                                  faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* BIGINT data type:                      numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  130)
* big_tables system variable:            server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  330)
* BIN():                                 string-functions.   (line  178)
* BINARY:                                cast-functions.     (line  266)
* binary collation:                      charset-binary-collations.
                                                             (line    6)
* BINARY data type:                      string-type-syntax. (line  171)
* BINARY data type <1>:                  binary-varbinary.   (line    6)
* binary distributions, installing:      binary-installation.
                                                             (line    6)
* binary log:                            binary-log.         (line   13)
* binary log <1>:                        glossary.           (line  263)
* binary log, event groups:              set-global-sql-slave-skip-counter.
                                                             (line    6)
* binary logging, and NDB Cluster:       mysql-cluster-limitations-exclusive-to-cluster.
                                                             (line   22)
* binary-as-hex option, mysql:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  280)
* bind-address option (ndb_mgmd):        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  123)
* bind-address option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  290)
* bind-address option, mysqladmin:       mysqladmin.         (line  357)
* bind-address option, mysqlbinlog:      mysqlbinlog.        (line  283)
* bind-address option, mysqlcheck:       mysqlcheck.         (line  268)
* bind-address option, mysqld:           server-options.     (line  169)
* bind-address option, mysqldump:        mysqldump.          (line  574)
* bind-address option, mysqlimport:      mysqlimport.        (line  176)
* bind-address option, mysqlshow:        mysqlshow.          (line  149)
* binlog:                                glossary.           (line  285)
* Binlog Dump, thread command:           thread-commands.    (line    8)
* BINLOG statement:                      binlog.             (line    6)
* BINLOG statement, mysqlbinlog output:  mysqlbinlog-row-events.
                                                             (line    6)
* binlog-do-db option, mysqld:           replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  118)
* binlog-ignore-db option, mysqld:       replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  241)
* binlog-row-event-max-size option, mysqld: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line   25)
* binlog_cache_size system variable:     replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  356)
* binlog_direct_non_transactional_updates system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  407)
* binlog_format system variable:         replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  465)
* binlog_format system variable, NDB Cluster: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  516)
* binlog_format system variable, NDB Cluster <1>: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  556)
* binlog_format, BLACKHOLE:              replication-features-blackhole.
                                                             (line    6)
* binlog_index table (OBSOLETE):         mysql-cluster-replication-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* binlog_stmt_cache_size system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  575)
* BIT data type:                         numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   33)
* bit functions:                         bit-functions.      (line    6)
* bit functions, example:                calculating-days.   (line    6)
* bit operators:                         bit-functions.      (line    6)
* bit-value literal introducer:          bit-value-literals. (line   41)
* bit-value literals:                    bit-value-literals. (line    6)
* BIT_AND():                             group-by-functions. (line   95)
* BIT_COUNT:                             calculating-days.   (line    6)
* BIT_COUNT():                           bit-functions.      (line  107)
* BIT_LENGTH():                          string-functions.   (line  188)
* BIT_OR:                                calculating-days.   (line    6)
* BIT_OR():                              group-by-functions. (line  104)
* BIT_XOR():                             group-by-functions. (line  113)
* BLACKHOLE storage engine:              storage-engines.    (line   20)
* BLACKHOLE storage engine <1>:          blackhole-storage-engine.
                                                             (line    6)
* BLACKHOLE, binlog_format:              replication-features-blackhole.
                                                             (line    6)
* BLACKHOLE, replication:                replication-features-blackhole.
                                                             (line    6)
* blind query expansion:                 glossary.           (line  289)
* BLOB columns, default values:          blob.               (line   53)
* BLOB columns, indexing:                column-indexes.     (line   32)
* BLOB columns, indexing <1>:            create-table.       (line  296)
* BLOB columns, inserting binary data:   string-literals.    (line  158)
* BLOB data type:                        string-type-syntax. (line  205)
* BLOB data type <1>:                    blob.               (line    6)
* BLOB, size:                            storage-requirements.
                                                             (line  235)
* blob-info option, ndb_desc:            mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc.
                                                             (line  292)
* Block Nested-Loop join algorithm:      nested-loop-joins.  (line    6)
* block-search option, myisamchk:        myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   20)
* blocks, ndbinfo table:                 mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-blocks.
                                                             (line    6)
* BOOL data type:                        numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   46)
* BOOLEAN data type:                     numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   45)
* boolean literals:                      boolean-literals.   (line    6)
* boolean options:                       option-modifiers.   (line    6)
* bootstrap option, mysqld:              server-options.     (line  226)
* bottleneck:                            glossary.           (line  297)
* bounce:                                glossary.           (line  307)
* brackets, square:                      data-types.         (line   41)
* brief option, mysqlaccess:             mysqlaccess.        (line   94)
* buddy allocator:                       innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem.
                                                             (line    6)
* buddy allocator <1>:                   glossary.           (line  311)
* buffer:                                glossary.           (line  314)
* buffer pool:                           innodb-buffer-pool-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* buffer pool <1>:                       innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion.
                                                             (line    6)
* buffer pool <2>:                       innodb-performance-read_ahead.
                                                             (line    6)
* buffer pool <3>:                       innodb-buffer-pool-flushing.
                                                             (line    6)
* buffer pool <4>:                       glossary.           (line  322)
* buffer pool instance:                  glossary.           (line  341)
* buffer pool, and compressed tables:    innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  176)
* buffer pool, monitoring:               innodb-buffer-pool. (line  118)
* buffer sizes:                          innodb-buffer-pool-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* buffer sizes, client:                  connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* bugs database:                         bug-reports.        (line    6)
* bugs, known:                           known-issues.       (line    6)
* bugs, NDB Cluster, reporting:          mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter.
                                                             (line    6)
* bugs, reporting:                       introduction.       (line   68)
* bugs, reporting <1>:                   bug-reports.        (line    6)
* bugs.mysql.com:                        bug-reports.        (line    6)
* builddir option, mysql_install_db:     mysql-install-db.   (line   99)
* BuildIndexThreads:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3987)
* building, client programs:             c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line    6)
* BUILD_CONFIG option, CMake:            source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  309)
* built-in:                              glossary.           (line  352)
* bulk loading, for InnoDB tables:       optimizing-innodb-bulk-data-loading.
                                                             (line    6)
* bulk loading, for MyISAM tables:       optimizing-myisam-bulk-data-loading.
                                                             (line    6)
* bulk_insert_buffer_size system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  368)
* bulk_insert_buffer_size system variable <1>: myisam-start. (line   61)
* business rules:                        glossary.           (line  362)
* C API:                                 connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* C API, data structures:                c-api-data-structures.
                                                             (line    6)
* C API, data types:                     c-api.              (line   29)
* C API, example programs:               c-api-example-programs.
                                                             (line    6)
* C API, FAQ:                            faqs-c-api.         (line    6)
* C API, functions:                      c-api-function-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* C API, linking problems:               c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line  155)
* C++:                                   connector-cpp-info. (line    6)
* C:\my.cnf option file:                 multiple-server-clients.
                                                             (line   40)
* cache:                                 glossary.           (line  386)
* CACHE INDEX statement:                 cache-index.        (line    6)
* CACHE INDEX, and partitioning:         partitioning-limitations.
                                                             (line  294)
* caches, clearing:                      flush.              (line    6)
* calculating, aggregate value for a set of rows: group-by-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* calculating, cardinality:              show-index.         (line   84)
* calculating, dates:                    date-calculations.  (line    6)
* calendar:                              mysql-calendar.     (line    6)
* CALL:                                  call.               (line    6)
* calling sequences for aggregate functions, UDF: adding-udf.
                                                             (line  272)
* calling sequences for simple functions, UDF: adding-udf.   (line  159)
* can't create/write to file:            cannot-create.      (line    6)
* Can't reopen table, error message:     temporary-table-problems.
                                                             (line   27)
* cardinality:                           table-scan-avoidance.
                                                             (line    6)
* cardinality <1>:                       glossary.           (line  390)
* carriage return (\r):                  string-literals.    (line   88)
* carriage return (\r) <1>:              load-data.          (line  447)
* CASE:                                  control-flow-functions.
                                                             (line   18)
* CASE <1>:                              case.               (line    6)
* case sensitivity, access checking:     grant-tables.       (line  404)
* case sensitivity, account names:       account-names.      (line   59)
* case sensitivity, in identifiers:      identifier-case-sensitivity.
                                                             (line    6)
* case sensitivity, in names:            identifier-case-sensitivity.
                                                             (line    6)
* case sensitivity, in searches:         case-sensitivity.   (line    6)
* case sensitivity, in string comparisons: string-comparison-functions.
                                                             (line   20)
* case sensitivity, of database names:   extensions-to-ansi. (line   39)
* case sensitivity, of replication filtering options: replication-rules.
                                                             (line   58)
* case sensitivity, of table names:      extensions-to-ansi. (line   39)
* CAST:                                  cast-functions.     (line  335)
* cast functions:                        cast-functions.     (line    6)
* cast operators:                        cast-functions.     (line    6)
* casts:                                 type-conversion.    (line    6)
* casts <1>:                             comparison-operators.
                                                             (line   60)
* casts <2>:                             cast-functions.     (line    6)
* CC environment variable:               compilation-problems.
                                                             (line   43)
* CC environment variable <1>:           environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* CEIL():                                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  158)
* CEILING():                             mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  163)
* Centroid():                            gis-polygon-property-functions.
                                                             (line   36)
* cflags option, mysql_config:           mysql-config.       (line   13)
* change buffer:                         innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line    6)
* change buffer <1>:                     glossary.           (line  419)
* change buffer, monitoring:             innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line  116)
* change buffering:                      glossary.           (line  451)
* change buffering, disabling:           innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line   48)
* CHANGE MASTER TO:                      change-master-to.   (line    6)
* CHANGE MASTER TO, in NDB Cluster:      mysql-cluster-replication-preparation.
                                                             (line   37)
* Change user, thread command:           thread-commands.    (line   14)
* changes to privileges:                 privilege-changes.  (line    6)
* Changing master, thread state:         slave-connection-thread-states.
                                                             (line    9)
* changing, column:                      alter-table.        (line  369)
* changing, field:                       alter-table.        (line  369)
* changing, socket location:             mysql-server.       (line   98)
* changing, socket location <1>:         problems-with-mysql-sock.
                                                             (line   26)
* changing, table:                       alter-table.        (line   11)
* changing, table <1>:                   alter-table.        (line  530)
* changing, table <2>:                   alter-table-problems.
                                                             (line    6)
* CHAR data type:                        string-types.       (line   15)
* CHAR data type <1>:                    string-type-syntax. (line  107)
* CHAR VARYING data type:                string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* CHAR():                                string-functions.   (line  196)
* CHARACTER data type:                   string-type-syntax. (line  108)
* character set introducer:              charset-introducer. (line    6)
* character set repertoire:              charset-unicode-utf8mb3.
                                                             (line   17)
* character sets:                        charset.            (line   25)
* character sets, adding:                adding-character-set.
                                                             (line   12)
* character sets, and replication:       replication-features-charset.
                                                             (line    6)
* character sets, Asian:                 charset-asian-sets. (line   10)
* character sets, Baltic:                charset-baltic-sets.
                                                             (line    6)
* character sets, binary:                charset-binary-set. (line    6)
* character sets, Central European:      charset-ce-sets.    (line    6)
* character sets, Cyrillic:              charset-cyrillic-sets.
                                                             (line    6)
* character sets, Middle East:           charset-se-me-sets. (line    6)
* character sets, repertoire:            charset-repertoire. (line    6)
* character sets, restrictions:          charset-restrictions.
                                                             (line    6)
* character sets, South European:        charset-se-me-sets. (line    6)
* character sets, Unicode:               charset-unicode-sets.
                                                             (line    6)
* character sets, West European:         charset-we-sets.    (line    6)
* CHARACTER VARYING data type:           string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* character-set-client-handshake option, mysqld: server-options.
                                                             (line  243)
* character-sets-dir option (NDB Cluster programs): mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  111)
* character-sets-dir option (NDB Cluster programs) <1>: mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  112)
* character-sets-dir option, myisamchk:  myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   16)
* character-sets-dir option, myisampack: myisampack.         (line   62)
* character-sets-dir option, mysql:      mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  301)
* character-sets-dir option, mysqladmin: mysqladmin.         (line  368)
* character-sets-dir option, mysqlbinlog: mysqlbinlog.       (line  290)
* character-sets-dir option, mysqlcheck: mysqlcheck.         (line  279)
* character-sets-dir option, mysqldump:  mysqldump.          (line  585)
* character-sets-dir option, mysqlimport: mysqlimport.       (line  187)
* character-sets-dir option, mysqlshow:  mysqlshow.          (line  160)
* character-sets-dir option, mysql_upgrade: mysql-upgrade.   (line  240)
* character-sets-dir option, ndb_move_data: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line   92)
* characters, multibyte:                 multibyte-characters.
                                                             (line    6)
* CHARACTER_LENGTH():                    string-functions.   (line  247)
* CHARACTER_SETS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: character-sets-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* character_sets_dir system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  579)
* character_set_client system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  403)
* character_set_connection system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  446)
* character_set_database system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  465)
* character_set_filesystem system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  489)
* character_set_results system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  519)
* character_set_server system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  538)
* character_set_system system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  561)
* charset command, mysql:                mysql-commands.     (line   63)
* charset option, comp_err:              comp-err.           (line   31)
* CHARSET():                             information-functions.
                                                             (line   99)
* CHAR_LENGTH():                         string-functions.   (line  239)
* check option, myisamchk:               myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   10)
* check option, mysqlcheck:              mysqlcheck.         (line  285)
* check options, myisamchk:              myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* CHECK TABLE statement:                 check-table.        (line    6)
* CHECK TABLE, and partitioning:         partitioning-maintenance.
                                                             (line    6)
* check-only-changed option, myisamchk:  myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   16)
* check-only-changed option, mysqlcheck: mysqlcheck.         (line  290)
* check-orphans option, ndb_blob_tool:   mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool.
                                                             (line   70)
* check-upgrade option, mysqlcheck:      mysqlcheck.         (line  296)
* Checking master version, thread state: slave-io-thread-states.
                                                             (line   12)
* checking permissions, thread state:    general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   25)
* checking privileges on cached query, thread state: query-cache-thread-states.
                                                             (line    9)
* checking query cache for query, thread state: query-cache-thread-states.
                                                             (line   15)
* Checking table, thread state:          general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   31)
* checking, tables for errors:           myisam-check.       (line    6)
* checkpoint:                            glossary.           (line  462)
* CHECKPOINT Events (NDB Cluster):       mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line   44)
* checkpoint option, mysqlhotcopy:       mysqlhotcopy.       (line  118)
* Checksum:                              mysql-cluster-tcp-definition.
                                                             (line  243)
* Checksum <1>:                          mysql-cluster-sci-definition.
                                                             (line  302)
* checksum:                              glossary.           (line  468)
* Checksum (NDB Cluster):                mysql-cluster-shm-definition.
                                                             (line   45)
* checksum errors:                       solaris-installation.
                                                             (line   10)
* CHECKSUM TABLE statement:              checksum-table.     (line    6)
* CHECKSUM TABLE, and replication:       replication-features-checksum-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* child table:                           glossary.           (line  488)
* Chinese, Japanese, Korean character sets, frequently asked questions: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* choosing, a MySQL version:             which-version.      (line   14)
* choosing, data types:                  choosing-types.     (line    6)
* chroot option, mysqld:                 server-options.     (line  260)
* chroot option, mysqlhotcopy:           mysqlhotcopy.       (line  124)
* circular replication, in NDB Cluster:  mysql-cluster-replication-issues.
                                                             (line   60)
* circular replication, in NDB Cluster <1>: mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master.
                                                             (line    6)
* circular replication, in NDB Cluster <2>: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Access, PHP, etc.: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), availability of specific characters: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), big5: faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), character sets available: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), characters displayed as question marks: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), CJKV: faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), collations: faqs-cjk.     (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), collations <1>: faqs-cjk. (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), conversion problems with Japanese character sets: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), data truncation: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Database and table names: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), documentation in Chinese: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), documentation in Japanese: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), documentation in Korean: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), FAQ:  faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), gb2312, gbk: faqs-cjk.    (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Japanese character sets: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Korean character set: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), LIKE and FULLTEXT: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), MySQL 4.0 behavior: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), ORDER BY treatment: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), ORDER BY treatment <1>: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with Access, PHP, etc.: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with Big5 character sets (Chinese): faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with data truncation: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with euckr character set (Korean): faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with GB character sets (Chinese): faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with LIKE and FULLTEXT: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), problems with Yen sign (Japanese): faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), rejected characters: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), sort order problems: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), sort order problems <1>: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), sorting problems: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), sorting problems <1>: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), testing availability of characters: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Unicode collations: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Vietnamese: faqs-cjk.     (line    6)
* CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean), Yen sign: faqs-cjk.       (line    6)
* clean page:                            glossary.           (line  498)
* clean shutdown:                        server-shutdown.    (line    6)
* clean shutdown <1>:                    glossary.           (line  502)
* cleaning up, thread state:             general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   36)
* clear command, mysql:                  mysql-commands.     (line   72)
* clearing, caches:                      flush.              (line    6)
* Clearing, thread state:                event-scheduler-thread-states.
                                                             (line   10)
* client:                                glossary.           (line  506)
* client connections:                    client-connections. (line    6)
* client programs:                       programs-overview.  (line  114)
* client programs, building:             c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line    6)
* client tools:                          connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* client, signal handling:               unix-signal-response.
                                                             (line   74)
* clients, debugging:                    debugging-client.   (line    6)
* clients, threaded:                     c-api-threaded-clients.
                                                             (line    6)
* cloning tables:                        create-table-like.  (line    6)
* CLOSE:                                 close.              (line    6)
* Close stmt, thread command:            thread-commands.    (line   19)
* closing tables, thread state:          general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   42)
* closing, tables:                       table-cache.        (line    6)
* cluster database (OBSOLETE):           mysql-cluster-replication-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* cluster logs:                          mysql-cluster-event-reports.
                                                             (line   12)
* cluster logs <1>:                      mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* cluster.binlog_index table (OBSOLETE): mysql-cluster-replication-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* clustered index:                       glossary.           (line  511)
* clustered index, InnoDB:               innodb-index-types. (line    6)
* Clustering:                            mysql-cluster.      (line   16)
* CLUSTERLOG commands (NDB Cluster):     mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands.
                                                             (line   12)
* CLUSTERLOG STATISTICS command (NDB Cluster): mysql-cluster-log-statistics.
                                                             (line    6)
* cluster_operations, ndbinfo table:     mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-operations.
                                                             (line    6)
* cluster_replication database (OBSOLETE): mysql-cluster-replication-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* cluster_transactions, ndbinfo table:   mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-cluster-transactions.
                                                             (line    6)
* CMake, BUILD_CONFIG option:            source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  308)
* CMake, CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE option:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  315)
* CMake, CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  839)
* CMake, CMAKE_C_FLAGS option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  834)
* CMake, CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX option:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  346)
* CMake, COMPILATION_COMMENT option:     source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  560)
* CMake, CPACK_MONOLITHIC_INSTALL option: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  328)
* CMake, DEFAULT_CHARSET option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  565)
* CMake, DEFAULT_COLLATION option:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  584)
* CMake, ENABLED_LOCAL_INFILE option:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  636)
* CMake, ENABLED_PROFILING option:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  661)
* CMake, ENABLE_DEBUG_SYNC option:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  594)
* CMake, ENABLE_DOWNLOADS option:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  618)
* CMake, ENABLE_DTRACE option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  625)
* CMake, ENABLE_GCOV option:             source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  631)
* CMake, IGNORE_AIO_CHECK option:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  668)
* CMake, INSTALL_BINDIR option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  354)
* CMake, INSTALL_DOCDIR option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  359)
* CMake, INSTALL_DOCREADMEDIR option:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  364)
* CMake, INSTALL_INCLUDEDIR option:      source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  369)
* CMake, INSTALL_INFODIR option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  374)
* CMake, INSTALL_LAYOUT option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  379)
* CMake, INSTALL_LIBDIR option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  398)
* CMake, INSTALL_MANDIR option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  403)
* CMake, INSTALL_MYSQLSHAREDIR option:   source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  408)
* CMake, INSTALL_MYSQLTESTDIR option:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  413)
* CMake, INSTALL_PLUGINDIR option:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  420)
* CMake, INSTALL_SBINDIR option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  428)
* CMake, INSTALL_SCRIPTDIR option:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  433)
* CMake, INSTALL_SECURE_FILE_PRIVDIR option: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  438)
* CMake, INSTALL_SECURE_FILE_PRIV_EMBEDDEDDIR option: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  451)
* CMake, INSTALL_SHAREDIR option:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  458)
* CMake, INSTALL_SQLBENCHDIR option:     source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  463)
* CMake, INSTALL_SUPPORTFILESDIR option: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  470)
* CMake, MEMCACHED_HOME option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  878)
* CMake, MYSQL_DATADIR option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  475)
* CMake, MYSQL_MAINTAINER_MODE option:   source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  676)
* CMake, MYSQL_PROJECT_NAME option:      source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  683)
* CMake, MYSQL_TCP_PORT option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  689)
* CMake, MYSQL_UNIX_ADDR option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  697)
* CMake, ODBC_INCLUDES option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  483)
* CMake, ODBC_LIB_DIR option:            source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  489)
* CMake, options:                        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* CMake, REPRODUCIBLE_BUILD option:      source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  708)
* CMake, running after prior invocation: installing-source-distribution.
                                                             (line  207)
* CMake, running after prior invocation <1>: compilation-problems.
                                                             (line    9)
* CMake, SYSCONFDIR option:              source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  495)
* CMake, TMPDIR option:                  source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  505)
* CMake, VERSION file:                   source-configuration-third-party.
                                                             (line    6)
* CMake, WITH_ASAN option:               source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  714)
* CMake, WITH_BUNDLED_LIBEVENT option:   source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  900)
* CMake, WITH_BUNDLED_MEMCACHED option:  source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  908)
* CMake, WITH_CLASSPATH option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  920)
* CMake, WITH_DEBUG option:              source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  720)
* CMake, WITH_EMBEDDED_SERVER option:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  736)
* CMake, WITH_EMBEDDED_SHARED_LIBRARY option: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  741)
* CMake, WITH_ERROR_INSERT option:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  927)
* CMake, WITH_EXTRA_CHARSETS option:     source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  747)
* CMake, WITH_LIBEDIT option:            source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  758)
* CMake, WITH_LIBWRAP option:            source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  763)
* CMake, WITH_NDBCLUSTER option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  941)
* CMake, WITH_NDBCLUSTER_STORAGE_ENGINE option: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  934)
* CMake, WITH_NDBMTD option:             source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  946)
* CMake, WITH_NDB_BINLOG option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  952)
* CMake, WITH_NDB_DEBUG option:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  958)
* CMake, WITH_NDB_JAVA option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  964)
* CMake, WITH_NDB_PORT option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  976)
* CMake, WITH_NDB_TEST option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  984)
* CMake, WITH_READLINE option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  768)
* CMake, WITH_SSL option:                source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  774)
* CMake, WITH_UNIT_TESTS option:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  797)
* CMake, WITH_UNIXODBC option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  803)
* CMake, WITH_VALGRIND option:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  808)
* CMake, WITH_ZLIB option:               source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  819)
* CMakeCache.txt file:                   compilation-problems.
                                                             (line    6)
* CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE option, CMake:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  316)
* CMAKE_CXX_FLAGS option, CMake:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  840)
* CMAKE_C_FLAGS option, CMake:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  835)
* CMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX option, CMake:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  347)
* COALESCE():                            comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  228)
* COERCIBILITY():                        information-functions.
                                                             (line  111)
* coercibility, collation:               charset-collation-coercibility.
                                                             (line    6)
* cold backup:                           glossary.           (line  522)
* collating, strings:                    string-collating.   (line    6)
* COLLATION():                           information-functions.
                                                             (line  151)
* collation, adding:                     adding-collation.   (line   13)
* collation, coercibility:               charset-collation-coercibility.
                                                             (line    6)
* collation, INFORMATION_SCHEMA:         charset-collation-information-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* collation, modifying:                  adding-collation.   (line   59)
* collations:                            charset.            (line   25)
* collations, Asian:                     charset-asian-sets. (line   10)
* collations, Baltic:                    charset-baltic-sets.
                                                             (line    6)
* collations, binary:                    charset-binary-collations.
                                                             (line    6)
* collations, binary <1>:                charset-binary-set. (line    6)
* collations, Central European:          charset-ce-sets.    (line    6)
* collations, Cyrillic:                  charset-cyrillic-sets.
                                                             (line    6)
* COLLATIONS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:  collations-table.   (line    6)
* collations, Middle East:               charset-se-me-sets. (line    6)
* collations, naming conventions:        charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line    6)
* collations, PAD SPACE:                 charset-binary-collations.
                                                             (line  103)
* collations, PAD SPACE <1>:             char.               (line   97)
* collations, South European:            charset-se-me-sets. (line    6)
* collations, Unicode:                   charset-unicode-sets.
                                                             (line    6)
* collations, West European:             charset-we-sets.    (line    6)
* collations, _ai suffix:                charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* collations, _as suffix:                charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* collations, _bin suffix:               charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* collations, _bin suffix <1>:           charset-binary-collations.
                                                             (line    6)
* collations, _ci suffix:                charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* collations, _ss suffix:                charset-collation-names.
                                                             (line   26)
* COLLATION_CHARACTER_SET_APPLICABILITY, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: collation-character-set-applicability-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* collation_connection system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  598)
* collation_database system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  618)
* collation_server system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  642)
* column:                                glossary.           (line  526)
* column alias, problems:                problems-with-alias.
                                                             (line    6)
* column alias, quoting:                 identifiers.        (line   82)
* column alias, quoting <1>:             problems-with-alias.
                                                             (line    6)
* column comments:                       create-table.       (line  372)
* column format:                         create-table.       (line  380)
* column index:                          glossary.           (line  539)
* column names, case sensitivity:        identifier-case-sensitivity.
                                                             (line    6)
* column prefix:                         glossary.           (line  541)
* column storage:                        create-table.       (line  403)
* column, changing:                      alter-table.        (line  369)
* column, types:                         data-types.         (line   26)
* column-names option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  307)
* column-type-info option, mysql:        mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  312)
* columns option, mysqlimport:           mysqlimport.        (line  193)
* columns partitioning:                  partitioning-columns.
                                                             (line   11)
* columns per table, maximum:            column-count-limit. (line   15)
* columns, displaying:                   mysqlshow.          (line    6)
* columns, indexes:                      column-indexes.     (line    6)
* COLUMNS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:     columns-table.      (line    6)
* columns, names:                        identifiers.        (line   14)
* columns, other types:                  other-vendor-data-types.
                                                             (line    6)
* columns, selecting:                    selecting-columns.  (line    6)
* columns, storage requirements:         storage-requirements.
                                                             (line    6)
* columns_priv table, system table:      system-schema.      (line   53)
* columns_priv table, system table <1>:  grant-tables.       (line   63)
* COLUMN_PRIVILEGES, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: column-privileges-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* comma-separated values data, reading:  load-data.          (line  339)
* comma-separated values data, reading <1>: select-into.     (line  122)
* command option precedence:             program-options.    (line   52)
* command options (NDB Cluster), mysqld: mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line    6)
* command options (NDB Cluster), ndbd:   mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line   17)
* command options (NDB Cluster), ndbinfo_select_all: mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all.
                                                             (line   53)
* command options (NDB Cluster), ndb_mgm: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm.
                                                             (line   27)
* command options (NDB Cluster), ndb_mgmd: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line   12)
* command options, mysql:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* command options, mysqladmin:           mysqladmin.         (line  233)
* command options, mysqld:               server-options.     (line    6)
* command syntax:                        manual-conventions. (line  120)
* command-line history, mysql:           mysql-logging.      (line    6)
* command-line options (NDB Cluster):    mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line    6)
* command-line tool:                     MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line    6)
* command-line tool <1>:                 mysql.              (line   15)
* commands out of sync:                  commands-out-of-sync.
                                                             (line    6)
* commands, for binary distribution:     binary-installation.
                                                             (line   88)
* comment syntax:                        comments.           (line    6)
* comments option, mysql:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  317)
* comments option, mysqldump:            mysqldump.          (line  591)
* comments, adding:                      comments.           (line    6)
* comments, starting:                    ansi-diff-comments. (line    6)
* COMMIT:                                commit.             (line    6)
* commit:                                glossary.           (line  554)
* commit option, mysqlaccess:            mysqlaccess.        (line   99)
* commit option, mysqlslap:              mysqlslap.          (line  298)
* COMMIT, XA transactions:               xa-statements.      (line    6)
* Committing events to binlog, thread state: mysql-cluster-thread-states.
                                                             (line    6)
* compact option, mysqldump:             mysqldump.          (line  599)
* compact row format:                    innodb-row-format.  (line  141)
* compact row format <1>:                glossary.           (line  566)
* comparison operators:                  comparison-operators.
                                                             (line    6)
* comparisons, access checking:          grant-tables.       (line  404)
* comparisons, account names:            account-names.      (line   59)
* compatibility, between MySQL versions: upgrading-from-previous-series.
                                                             (line    6)
* compatibility, with mSQL:              regexp.             (line   42)
* compatibility, with ODBC:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 5628)
* compatibility, with ODBC <1>:          identifier-qualifiers.
                                                             (line   58)
* compatibility, with ODBC <2>:          numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  241)
* compatibility, with ODBC <3>:          type-conversion.    (line   55)
* compatibility, with ODBC <4>:          comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  362)
* compatibility, with ODBC <5>:          create-table.       (line  356)
* compatibility, with ODBC <6>:          join.               (line  154)
* compatibility, with Oracle:            extensions-to-ansi. (line   96)
* compatibility, with Oracle <1>:        group-by-functions. (line  294)
* compatibility, with Oracle <2>:        alter-table.        (line  394)
* compatibility, with Oracle <3>:        explain.            (line   58)
* compatibility, with PostgreSQL:        extensions-to-ansi. (line  191)
* compatibility, with standard SQL:      compatibility.      (line   12)
* compatible option, mysqldump:          mysqldump.          (line  606)
* COMPILATION_COMMENT option, CMake:     source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  561)
* compiling clients, on Unix:            c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line   19)
* compiling clients, on Windows:         c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line   83)
* compiling, optimizing:                 system-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* compiling, problems:                   compilation-problems.
                                                             (line    6)
* compiling, user-defined functions:     adding-udf.         (line  554)
* complete-insert option, mysqldump:     mysqldump.          (line  623)
* completion_type system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  662)
* composite index:                       glossary.           (line  574)
* composite partitioning:                partitioning-subpartitions.
                                                             (line   26)
* compound statements:                   sql-compound-statements.
                                                             (line   16)
* compress option, mysql:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  324)
* compress option, mysqladmin:           mysqladmin.         (line  374)
* compress option, mysqlcheck:           mysqlcheck.         (line  304)
* compress option, mysqldump:            mysqldump.          (line  629)
* compress option, mysqlimport:          mysqlimport.        (line  200)
* compress option, mysqlshow:            mysqlshow.          (line  166)
* compress option, mysqlslap:            mysqlslap.          (line  304)
* compress option, mysql_upgrade:        mysql-upgrade.      (line  246)
* COMPRESS():                            encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  165)
* compressed backup:                     glossary.           (line  576)
* compressed row format:                 innodb-row-format.  (line  295)
* compressed row format <1>:             glossary.           (line  595)
* compressed table:                      glossary.           (line  608)
* compressed tables:                     myisampack.         (line    6)
* compressed tables <1>:                 compressed-format.  (line    6)
* CompressedBackup:                      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2147)
* CompressedLCP:                         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2180)
* compression:                           innodb-compression. (line   15)
* compression <1>:                       glossary.           (line  612)
* compression failure:                   glossary.           (line  650)
* compression, algorithms:               innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line   13)
* compression, application and schema design: innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  140)
* compression, BLOBs, VARCHAR and TEXT:  innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  116)
* compression, buffer pool considerations: innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  176)
* compression, compressed page size:     innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  227)
* compression, configuration characteristics: innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  209)
* compression, connection:               connection-compression-control.
                                                             (line    6)
* compression, data and indexes:         innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line   49)
* compression, data characteristics:     innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line   45)
* compression, enabling for a table:     innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* compression, implementation:           innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line    6)
* compression, information schema:       innodb-information-schema.
                                                             (line   12)
* compression, information schema <1>:   innodb-information-schema-compression-tables.
                                                             (line   12)
* compression, KEY_BLOCK_SIZE:           innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  227)
* compression, log file format:          innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  212)
* compression, modification log:         innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line   69)
* compression, monitoring:               innodb-compression-tuning-monitoring.
                                                             (line    6)
* compression, overflow pages:           innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  116)
* compression, overview:                 innodb-compression-background.
                                                             (line    6)
* compression, tuning:                   innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line    6)
* compression, workload characteristics: innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  179)
* comp_err:                              programs-overview.  (line   69)
* comp_err <1>:                          comp-err.           (line    6)
* comp_err, charset option:              comp-err.           (line   30)
* comp_err, debug option:                comp-err.           (line   36)
* comp_err, debug-info option:           comp-err.           (line   42)
* comp_err, header_file option:          comp-err.           (line   47)
* comp_err, help option:                 comp-err.           (line   25)
* comp_err, in_file option:              comp-err.           (line   53)
* comp_err, name_file option:            comp-err.           (line   59)
* comp_err, out_dir option:              comp-err.           (line   64)
* comp_err, out_file option:             comp-err.           (line   70)
* comp_err, statefile option:            comp-err.           (line   75)
* comp_err, version option:              comp-err.           (line   81)
* CONCAT():                              string-functions.   (line  252)
* concatenation, string:                 string-literals.    (line   12)
* concatenation, string <1>:             string-functions.   (line  253)
* CONCAT_WS():                           string-functions.   (line  277)
* concurrency:                           innodb-introduction.
                                                             (line   16)
* concurrency <1>:                       glossary.           (line  669)
* concurrency option, mysqlslap:         mysqlslap.          (line  310)
* concurrency, of commits:               innodb-parameters.  (line  742)
* concurrency, of threads:               innodb-parameters.  (line 2631)
* concurrency, tickets:                  innodb-parameters.  (line  772)
* concurrent inserts:                    internal-locking.   (line  103)
* concurrent inserts <1>:                concurrent-inserts. (line    6)
* concurrent_insert system variable:     server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  723)
* condition handling, INOUT parameters:  conditions-and-parameters.
                                                             (line    6)
* condition handling, OUT parameters:    conditions-and-parameters.
                                                             (line    6)
* Conditions:                            declare-condition.  (line    6)
* conditions:                            show-errors.        (line    6)
* conditions <1>:                        show-warnings.      (line    6)
* cond_instances table, performance_schema: cond-instances-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* config-cache option (ndb_mgmd):        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  157)
* config-file option (ndb_mgmd):         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  227)
* config-file option, mysqld_multi:      mysqld-multi.       (line   97)
* config-file option, my_print_defaults: my-print-defaults.  (line   31)
* config-file option, ndb_config:        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  190)
* config.ini (NDB Cluster):              mysql-cluster-install-configuration.
                                                             (line    6)
* config.ini (NDB Cluster) <1>:          mysql-cluster-config-file.
                                                             (line   22)
* config.ini (NDB Cluster) <2>:          mysql-cluster-config-example.
                                                             (line    6)
* config.ini (NDB Cluster) <3>:          mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  660)
* configdir option (ndb_mgmd):           mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  259)
* configinfo option, ndb_config:         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  133)
* configuration file:                    glossary.           (line  676)
* configuration files:                   problems-connecting.
                                                             (line  100)
* configuration, NDB Cluster:            mysql-cluster-configuration-overview.
                                                             (line   14)
* configuration, server:                 server-configuration.
                                                             (line    6)
* configure option, MySQLInstallerConsole: MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line   55)
* configuring backups, in NDB Cluster:   mysql-cluster-backup-configuration.
                                                             (line    6)
* configuring NDB Cluster:               mysql-cluster-installation.
                                                             (line   16)
* configuring NDB Cluster <1>:           mysql-cluster-configuration.
                                                             (line   13)
* configuring NDB Cluster <2>:           mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  660)
* configuring NDB Cluster <3>:           mysql-cluster-mysqld.
                                                             (line   43)
* Configuring NDB Cluster (concepts):    mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line    6)
* config_from_node option, ndb_config:   mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  208)
* config_params, ndbinfo table:          mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-config-params.
                                                             (line    6)
* conflict detection status variables, NDB Cluster Replication: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line  445)
* conflict resolution, and ndb_replication system table: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line  171)
* conflict resolution, enabling:         mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line  163)
* conflict resolution, in NDB Cluster Replication: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line    6)
* conflict resolution, mysqld startup options: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line   98)
* CONNECT command (NDB Cluster):         mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line   39)
* connect command, mysql:                mysql-commands.     (line   78)
* connect option, ndb_restore:           mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  427)
* Connect Out, thread command:           thread-commands.    (line   29)
* Connect, thread command:               thread-commands.    (line   24)
* connect-delay option (ndbd):           mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  147)
* connect-delay option (ndbmtd):         mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  148)
* connect-retries option (ndbd):         mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  172)
* connect-retries option (ndbmtd):       mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  173)
* connect-string option (NDB Cluster programs): mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  212)
* connect-timeout option, mysql:         mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  331)
* ConnectBackoffMaxTime:                 mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  566)
* ConnectCheckIntervalDelay:             mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2583)
* Connecting to master, thread state:    slave-io-thread-states.
                                                             (line   18)
* connecting, remotely with SSH:         windows-and-ssh.    (line    6)
* connecting, to the server:             connecting-disconnecting.
                                                             (line    6)
* connecting, to the server <1>:         connecting.         (line    6)
* connecting, verification:              connection-access.  (line    6)
* connection compression:                connection-compression-control.
                                                             (line    6)
* CONNECTION Events (NDB Cluster):       mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line   20)
* connection string:                     mysql-cluster-connection-strings.
                                                             (line    6)
* connection, aborted:                   communication-errors.
                                                             (line    6)
* connection-timeout option (ndb_error_reporter): mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter.
                                                             (line   67)
* ConnectionMap:                         mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line   81)
* connections option, ndb_config:        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  232)
* CONNECTION_ID():                       information-functions.
                                                             (line  161)
* Connector/C++:                         connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* Connector/C++ <1>:                     connector-cpp-info. (line    6)
* Connector/J:                           connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* Connector/J <1>:                       connector-j-info.   (line    6)
* Connector/NET:                         connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* Connector/NET <1>:                     connector-net-info. (line    6)
* Connector/ODBC:                        connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* Connector/ODBC <1>:                    connector-odbc-info.
                                                             (line    6)
* Connector/Python:                      connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* Connector/Python <1>:                  connector-python-info.
                                                             (line    6)
* Connectors:                            connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* connect_timeout system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  779)
* connect_timeout variable:              mysqladmin.         (line  617)
* consistent read:                       glossary.           (line  695)
* consistent reads:                      innodb-consistent-read.
                                                             (line    6)
* console option, mysqld:                server-options.     (line  276)
* const table, optimizer:                explain-output.     (line  272)
* const table, optimizer <1>:            select.             (line  403)
* constant table:                        where-optimization. (line   89)
* constraint:                            glossary.           (line  717)
* constraints:                           constraints.        (line   13)
* constraints, foreign keys:             create-table-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* Contains():                            spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   91)
* contributing companies, list of:       supporters.         (line    6)
* contributors, list of:                 contributors.       (line    6)
* control flow functions:                control-flow-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* Control+C, statement termination:      mysql.              (line   50)
* Control+C, statement termination <1>:  mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  769)
* CONV():                                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  177)
* conventions, syntax:                   manual-conventions. (line    8)
* conventions, typographical:            manual-conventions. (line    8)
* CONVERT:                               cast-functions.     (line  344)
* CONVERT TO:                            alter-table.        (line  608)
* converting HEAP to MyISAM, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   50)
* CONVERT_TZ():                          date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  243)
* copy option, mysqlaccess:              mysqlaccess.        (line  107)
* copy to tmp table, thread state:       general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   56)
* copying databases:                     copying-databases.  (line    6)
* copying tables:                        create-table-select.
                                                             (line    6)
* Copying to group table, thread state:  general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   63)
* Copying to tmp table on disk, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   74)
* Copying to tmp table, thread state:    general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   69)
* core-file option (NDB Cluster programs): mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  125)
* core-file option, mysqld:              server-options.     (line  292)
* core-file-size option, mysqld_safe:    mysqld-safe.        (line  121)
* correct-checksum option, myisamchk:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   22)
* correlated subqueries:                 correlated-subqueries.
                                                             (line    6)
* corruption:                            forcing-innodb-recovery.
                                                             (line    6)
* corruption, InnoDB:                    innodb-recovery.    (line   25)
* COS():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  198)
* COT():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  206)
* count option, myisam_ftdump:           myisam-ftdump.      (line   69)
* count option, mysqladmin:              mysqladmin.         (line  380)
* count option, mysqlshow:               mysqlshow.          (line  172)
* COUNT():                               group-by-functions. (line  122)
* COUNT(DISTINCT):                       group-by-functions. (line  173)
* counter:                               glossary.           (line  724)
* counters, ndbinfo table:               mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-counters.
                                                             (line    6)
* counting, table rows:                  counting-rows.      (line    6)
* covering index:                        glossary.           (line  732)
* CPACK_MONOLITHIC_INSTALL option, CMake: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  329)
* CPU-bound:                             glossary.           (line  744)
* crash:                                 debugging-server.   (line   16)
* crash <1>:                             glossary.           (line  748)
* crash recovery:                        glossary.           (line  758)
* crash recovery, InnoDB:                innodb-recovery.    (line   50)
* crash, recovery:                       myisam-crash-recovery.
                                                             (line    6)
* crash, repeated:                       crashing.           (line    6)
* crash, replication:                    replication-features-shutdowns.
                                                             (line    6)
* crash-me:                              mysql-benchmarks.   (line   39)
* crash-me program:                      mysql-benchmarks.   (line    6)
* CrashOnCorruptedTuple:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2039)
* CRC32():                               mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  216)
* CREATE ... IF NOT EXISTS, and replication: replication-features-create-if-not-exists.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE DATABASE:                       create-database.    (line    6)
* Create DB, thread command:             thread-commands.    (line   34)
* CREATE EVENT:                          create-event.       (line    6)
* CREATE EVENT, and replication:         replication-features-invoked.
                                                             (line   47)
* CREATE FUNCTION:                       create-procedure.   (line    6)
* CREATE FUNCTION statement:             create-function-udf.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE INDEX:                          create-index.       (line    6)
* CREATE INDEX <1>:                      innodb-create-index-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE LOGFILE GROUP:                  create-logfile-group.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE NODEGROUP command (NDB Cluster): mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line  214)
* create option, mysqlslap:              mysqlslap.          (line  315)
* CREATE privilege:                      privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  161)
* CREATE PROCEDURE:                      create-procedure.   (line    6)
* CREATE ROUTINE privilege:              privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  165)
* CREATE SCHEMA:                         create-database.    (line    6)
* CREATE SERVER:                         create-server.      (line    6)
* CREATE TABLE:                          create-table.       (line   16)
* CREATE TABLE ... SELECT, and replication: replication-features-create-select.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE TABLE, DIRECTORY options, and replication: replication-features-directory.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE TABLE, KEY_BLOCK_SIZE:          innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  227)
* CREATE TABLE, options for table compression: innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE TABLE, ROW_FORMAT:              innodb-row-format.  (line  328)
* CREATE TABLE, statement retention:     create-table-statement-retention.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE TABLE, table definition:        create-table-statement-retention.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE TABLESPACE:                     create-tablespace.  (line    6)
* CREATE TABLESPACE privilege:           privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  170)
* CREATE TEMPORARY TABLES privilege:     privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  175)
* CREATE TRIGGER:                        create-trigger.     (line    6)
* CREATE USER privilege:                 privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  187)
* CREATE USER statement:                 creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* CREATE USER statement <1>:             assigning-passwords.
                                                             (line    6)
* CREATE USER statement <2>:             create-user.        (line    6)
* CREATE VIEW:                           create-view.        (line    6)
* CREATE VIEW privilege:                 privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  193)
* create-options option, mysqldump:      mysqldump.          (line  635)
* create-schema option, mysqlslap:       mysqlslap.          (line  321)
* Creating delayed handler, thread state: delayed-insert-thread-states.
                                                             (line   23)
* Creating index, thread state:          general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   83)
* Creating sort index, thread state:     general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   89)
* creating table, thread state:          general-thread-states.
                                                             (line   95)
* Creating tmp table, thread state:      general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  101)
* creating user accounts:                create-user.        (line    6)
* creating, bug reports:                 bug-reports.        (line    6)
* creating, database:                    create-database.    (line    6)
* creating, databases:                   database-use.       (line   13)
* creating, default startup options:     option-files.       (line    6)
* creating, function:                    create-function-udf.
                                                             (line    6)
* creating, schema:                      create-database.    (line    6)
* creating, tables:                      creating-tables.    (line    6)
* CROSS JOIN:                            join.               (line    6)
* cross-bootstrap option, mysql_install_db: mysql-install-db.
                                                             (line  105)
* Crosses():                             spatial-relation-functions-object-shapes.
                                                             (line   11)
* CRUD:                                  glossary.           (line  773)
* CR_ALREADY_CONNECTED error code:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  354)
* CR_AUTH_PLUGIN_CANNOT_LOAD error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  360)
* CR_CANT_READ_CHARSET error code:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  134)
* CR_COMMANDS_OUT_OF_SYNC error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  101)
* CR_CONNECTION_ERROR error code:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   39)
* CR_CONN_HOST_ERROR error code:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   45)
* CR_CONN_UNKNOW_PROTOCOL error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  294)
* CR_DATA_TRUNCATED error code:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  200)
* CR_EMBEDDED_CONNECTION error code:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  144)
* CR_FETCH_CANCELED error code:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  310)
* CR_INVALID_BUFFER_USE error code:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  221)
* CR_INVALID_CONN_HANDLE error code:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  299)
* CR_INVALID_PARAMETER_NO error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  210)
* CR_IPSOCK_ERROR error code:            client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   50)
* CR_LOCALHOST_CONNECTION error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   81)
* CR_MALFORMED_PACKET error code:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  174)
* CR_NAMEDPIPEOPEN_ERROR error code:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  124)
* CR_NAMEDPIPESETSTATE_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  129)
* CR_NAMEDPIPEWAIT_ERROR error code:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  119)
* CR_NAMEDPIPE_CONNECTION error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  114)
* CR_NET_PACKET_TOO_LARGE error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  139)
* CR_NEW_STMT_METADATA error code:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  347)
* CR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED error code:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  331)
* CR_NO_DATA error code:                 client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  315)
* CR_NO_PARAMETERS_EXISTS error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  205)
* CR_NO_PREPARE_STMT error code:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  190)
* CR_NO_RESULT_SET error code:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  325)
* CR_NO_STMT_METADATA error code:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  320)
* CR_NULL_POINTER error code:            client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  185)
* CR_OUT_OF_MEMORY error code:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   71)
* CR_PARAMS_NOT_BOUND error code:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  195)
* CR_PROBE_MASTER_CONNECT error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  164)
* CR_PROBE_SLAVE_CONNECT error code:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  159)
* CR_PROBE_SLAVE_HOSTS error code:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  154)
* CR_PROBE_SLAVE_STATUS error code:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  149)
* CR_SECURE_AUTH error code:             client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  304)
* CR_SERVER_GONE_ERROR:                  gone-away.          (line    6)
* CR_SERVER_GONE_ERROR error code:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   60)
* CR_SERVER_HANDSHAKE_ERR error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   91)
* CR_SERVER_LOST error code:             client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   96)
* CR_SERVER_LOST_ERROR:                  gone-away.          (line    6)
* CR_SERVER_LOST_EXTENDED error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  336)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECTION error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  232)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_ABANDONED_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  282)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_ANSWER_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  244)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_FILE_MAP_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  251)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_MAP_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  258)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_REQUEST_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  237)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_SET_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  288)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_EVENT_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  276)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_FILE_MAP_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  264)
* CR_SHARED_MEMORY_MAP_ERROR error code: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  270)
* CR_SOCKET_CREATE_ERROR error code:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   34)
* CR_SSL_CONNECTION_ERROR error code:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  169)
* CR_STMT_CLOSED error code:             client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  341)
* CR_TCP_CONNECTION error code:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   86)
* CR_UNKNOWN_ERROR error code:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   29)
* CR_UNKNOWN_HOST error code:            client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   55)
* CR_UNSUPPORTED_PARAM_TYPE error code:  client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  227)
* CR_VERSION_ERROR error code:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   65)
* CR_WRONG_HOST_INFO error code:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   76)
* CR_WRONG_LICENSE error code:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  179)
* CSV data, reading:                     load-data.          (line  339)
* CSV data, reading <1>:                 select-into.        (line  122)
* csv option, mysqlslap:                 mysqlslap.          (line  332)
* CSV storage engine:                    storage-engines.    (line   20)
* CSV storage engine <1>:                csv-storage-engine. (line   11)
* CURDATE():                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  268)
* CURRENT_DATE:                          date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  280)
* CURRENT_TIME:                          date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  285)
* CURRENT_TIMESTAMP:                     date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  290)
* CURRENT_USER():                        information-functions.
                                                             (line  178)
* cursor:                                glossary.           (line  779)
* Cursors:                               cursors.            (line   14)
* CURTIME():                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  296)
* CXX environment variable:              compilation-problems.
                                                             (line   44)
* CXX environment variable <1>:          environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* daemon option (ndb_mgmd):              mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  139)
* daemon plugins:                        plugin-types.       (line  137)
* Daemon, thread command:                thread-commands.    (line   39)
* data dictionary:                       glossary.           (line  790)
* data directory:                        glossary.           (line  799)
* DATA DIRECTORY, and replication:       replication-features-directory.
                                                             (line    6)
* data directory, mysql_upgrade_info file: mysql-upgrade.    (line  111)
* data files:                            glossary.           (line  803)
* data node (NDB Cluster), defined:      mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line    6)
* data nodes (NDB Cluster):              mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line    6)
* data nodes (NDB Cluster) <1>:          mysql-cluster-programs-ndbmtd.
                                                             (line    6)
* data nodes, memory allocation:         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4050)
* Data on disk (NDB Cluster), and INFORMATION_SCHEMA.FILES table: files-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* data structures, C API:                c-api-data-structures.
                                                             (line    6)
* data structures, prepared statement C API: c-api-prepared-statement-data-structures.
                                                             (line   11)
* Data truncation with CJK characters:   faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* data type, BIGINT:                     numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  131)
* data type, BINARY:                     string-type-syntax. (line  172)
* data type, BINARY <1>:                 binary-varbinary.   (line    6)
* data type, BIT:                        numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   34)
* data type, BLOB:                       string-type-syntax. (line  206)
* data type, BLOB <1>:                   blob.               (line    6)
* data type, BOOL:                       numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   46)
* data type, BOOL <1>:                   other-vendor-data-types.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, BOOLEAN:                    numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   46)
* data type, BOOLEAN <1>:                other-vendor-data-types.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, CHAR:                       string-types.       (line   15)
* data type, CHAR <1>:                   string-type-syntax. (line  108)
* data type, CHAR VARYING:               string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* data type, CHARACTER:                  string-type-syntax. (line  108)
* data type, CHARACTER VARYING:          string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* data type, DATE:                       date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   15)
* data type, DATE <1>:                   datetime.           (line    6)
* data type, DATETIME:                   date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   23)
* data type, DATETIME <1>:               datetime.           (line    6)
* data type, DEC:                        numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  195)
* data type, DECIMAL:                    numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  178)
* data type, DECIMAL <1>:                precision-math.     (line   14)
* data type, DOUBLE:                     numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  245)
* data type, DOUBLE PRECISION:           numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  265)
* data type, ENUM:                       string-type-syntax. (line  273)
* data type, ENUM <1>:                   enum.               (line    6)
* data type, FIXED:                      numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  195)
* data type, FLOAT:                      numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  204)
* data type, FLOAT <1>:                  numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  227)
* data type, FLOAT <2>:                  numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  245)
* data type, GEOMETRY:                   spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, GEOMETRYCOLLECTION:         spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, INT:                        numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  120)
* data type, INTEGER:                    numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  126)
* data type, LINESTRING:                 spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, LONG:                       blob.               (line    6)
* data type, LONGBLOB:                   string-type-syntax. (line  250)
* data type, LONGTEXT:                   string-type-syntax. (line  260)
* data type, MEDIUMBLOB:                 string-type-syntax. (line  232)
* data type, MEDIUMINT:                  numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  114)
* data type, MEDIUMTEXT:                 string-type-syntax. (line  240)
* data type, MULTILINESTRING:            spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, MULTIPOINT:                 spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, MULTIPOLYGON:               spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, NATIONAL CHAR:              string-type-syntax. (line  108)
* data type, NATIONAL VARCHAR:           string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* data type, NCHAR:                      string-type-syntax. (line  108)
* data type, NUMERIC:                    numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  195)
* data type, NVARCHAR:                   string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* data type, POINT:                      spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, POLYGON:                    spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* data type, REAL:                       numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  265)
* data type, SET:                        string-type-syntax. (line  289)
* data type, SET <1>:                    set.                (line    6)
* data type, SMALLINT:                   numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  108)
* data type, TEXT:                       string-type-syntax. (line  218)
* data type, TEXT <1>:                   blob.               (line    6)
* data type, TIME:                       date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   58)
* data type, TIME <1>:                   time.               (line    6)
* data type, TIMESTAMP:                  date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   32)
* data type, TIMESTAMP <1>:              datetime.           (line    6)
* data type, TINYBLOB:                   string-type-syntax. (line  188)
* data type, TINYINT:                    numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   40)
* data type, TINYTEXT:                   string-type-syntax. (line  196)
* data type, VARBINARY:                  string-type-syntax. (line  180)
* data type, VARBINARY <1>:              binary-varbinary.   (line    6)
* data type, VARCHAR:                    string-types.       (line   15)
* data type, VARCHAR <1>:                string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* data type, VARCHARACTER:               string-type-syntax. (line  141)
* data type, YEAR:                       date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   66)
* data type, YEAR <1>:                   year.               (line    6)
* data types:                            data-types.         (line   26)
* data types, C API:                     c-api.              (line   29)
* data types, date and time:             date-and-time-types.
                                                             (line   18)
* data types, numeric:                   numeric-types.      (line   16)
* data types, string:                    string-types.       (line   15)
* data warehouse:                        glossary.           (line  816)
* data, importing:                       mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* data, importing <1>:                   mysqlimport.        (line    6)
* data, loading into tables:             loading-tables.     (line    6)
* data, retrieving:                      retrieving-data.    (line   18)
* data, size:                            data-size.          (line    6)
* data-file-length option, myisamchk:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   27)
* database:                              glossary.           (line  822)
* Database information, obtaining:       show.               (line   50)
* database metadata:                     information-schema. (line   41)
* database names, case sensitivity:      extensions-to-ansi. (line   38)
* database names, case sensitivity <1>:  identifier-case-sensitivity.
                                                             (line    6)
* database objects, metadata:            charset-metadata.   (line    6)
* database option (ndb_index_stat):      mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat.
                                                             (line  186)
* database option, mysql:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  335)
* database option, mysqlbinlog:          mysqlbinlog.        (line  296)
* database option, ndb_blob_tool:        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool.
                                                             (line   84)
* database option, ndb_desc:             mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc.
                                                             (line  301)
* database option, ndb_move_data:        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line  106)
* database option, ndb_show_tables:      mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables.
                                                             (line   56)
* DATABASE():                            information-functions.
                                                             (line  248)
* database, altering:                    alter-database.     (line    6)
* database, creating:                    create-database.    (line    6)
* database, deleting:                    drop-database.      (line    6)
* database, renaming:                    rename-table.       (line   55)
* databases option, mysqlcheck:          mysqlcheck.         (line  310)
* databases option, mysqldump:           mysqldump.          (line  641)
* databases, backups:                    backup-and-recovery.
                                                             (line   15)
* databases, copying:                    copying-databases.  (line    6)
* databases, creating:                   database-use.       (line   13)
* databases, creating <1>:               create-database.    (line    6)
* databases, defined:                    what-is-mysql.      (line   25)
* databases, displaying:                 mysqlshow.          (line    6)
* databases, dumping:                    mysqldump.          (line    6)
* databases, dumping <1>:                mysqlhotcopy.       (line    6)
* databases, information about:          getting-information.
                                                             (line    6)
* databases, names:                      identifiers.        (line   14)
* databases, replicating:                replication.        (line   13)
* databases, selecting:                  creating-database.  (line    6)
* databases, symbolic links:             symbolic-links-to-databases.
                                                             (line    6)
* databases, using:                      database-use.       (line   13)
* DataDir:                               mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  312)
* DataDir <1>:                           mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  325)
* datadir option, mysql.server:          mysql-server.       (line  138)
* datadir option, mysqld:                server-options.     (line  321)
* datadir option, mysqld_safe:           mysqld-safe.        (line  127)
* datadir option, mysql_install_db:      mysql-install-db.   (line  111)
* datadir option, mysql_plugin:          mysql-plugin.       (line  112)
* datadir option, mysql_upgrade:         mysql-upgrade.      (line  252)
* datadir system variable:               server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  808)
* DataMemory:                            mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  419)
* DATE:                                  using-date.         (line    6)
* date and time data types:              date-and-time-types.
                                                             (line   18)
* date and time functions:               date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* date calculations:                     date-calculations.  (line    6)
* DATE columns, problems:                using-date.         (line    6)
* DATE data type:                        date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   14)
* DATE data type <1>:                    datetime.           (line    6)
* date data types, storage requirements: storage-requirements.
                                                             (line  158)
* date literals:                         date-and-time-literals.
                                                             (line    6)
* date values, problems:                 datetime.           (line   55)
* DATE():                                date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  308)
* DATEDIFF():                            date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  316)
* dates, used with partitioning:         partitioning-types. (line   52)
* dates, used with partitioning (examples): partitioning-range.
                                                             (line  137)
* dates, used with partitioning (examples) <1>: partitioning-hash.
                                                             (line   57)
* dates, used with partitioning (examples) <2>: partitioning-subpartitions.
                                                             (line   41)
* dates, used with partitioning (examples) <3>: partitioning-pruning.
                                                             (line   94)
* DATETIME data type:                    date-and-time-type-syntax.
                                                             (line   22)
* DATETIME data type <1>:                datetime.           (line    6)
* datetime_format system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  835)
* DATE_ADD():                            date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  329)
* date_format system variable:           server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  830)
* DATE_FORMAT():                         date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  387)
* DATE_SUB():                            date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  330)
* DATE_SUB() <1>:                        date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  507)
* DAY():                                 date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  512)
* Daylight Saving Time:                  time-zone-support.  (line  266)
* Daylight Saving Time <1>:              timestamp-lookups.  (line   13)
* Daylight Saving Time <2>:              date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line 1295)
* DAYNAME():                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  517)
* DAYOFMONTH():                          date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  527)
* DAYOFWEEK():                           date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  537)
* DAYOFYEAR():                           date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  547)
* db option, mysqlaccess:                mysqlaccess.        (line  112)
* db table, sorting:                     request-access.     (line   50)
* db table, system table:                default-privileges. (line    6)
* db table, system table <1>:            system-schema.      (line   47)
* db table, system table <2>:            grant-tables.       (line   57)
* DB2 SQL mode:                          sql-mode.           (line  524)
* DBI interface:                         apis-perl.          (line    6)
* DBI->quote:                            string-literals.    (line  158)
* DBI->trace:                            using-gdb-on-mysqld.
                                                             (line   83)
* DBI/DBD interface:                     apis-perl.          (line    6)
* DBI_TRACE environment variable:        environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* DBI_TRACE environment variable <1>:    using-gdb-on-mysqld.
                                                             (line   83)
* DBI_USER environment variable:         environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* DBUG package:                          dbug-package.       (line    6)
* DCL:                                   grant.              (line    6)
* DCL <1>:                               revoke.             (line    6)
* DCL <2>:                               glossary.           (line  840)
* DDL:                                   sql-data-definition-statements.
                                                             (line   41)
* DDL <1>:                               glossary.           (line  844)
* DDL log:                               ddl-log.            (line    6)
* deadlock:                              internal-locking.   (line    6)
* deadlock <1>:                          lock-tables.        (line  228)
* deadlock <2>:                          innodb-locks-set.   (line    6)
* deadlock <3>:                          innodb-deadlocks.   (line   12)
* deadlock <4>:                          innodb-deadlock-example.
                                                             (line    6)
* deadlock <5>:                          innodb-deadlock-detection.
                                                             (line    6)
* deadlock <6>:                          innodb-deadlocks-handling.
                                                             (line    6)
* deadlock <7>:                          innodb-parameters.  (line 2021)
* deadlock <8>:                          glossary.           (line  863)
* deadlock detection:                    glossary.           (line  879)
* DEALLOCATE PREPARE:                    sql-prepared-statements.
                                                             (line   13)
* DEALLOCATE PREPARE <1>:                deallocate-prepare. (line    6)
* debug option (NDB Cluster programs):   mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  150)
* debug option, comp_err:                comp-err.           (line   37)
* debug option, myisamchk:               myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   24)
* debug option, myisampack:              myisampack.         (line   68)
* debug option, mysql:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  340)
* debug option, mysqlaccess:             mysqlaccess.        (line  117)
* debug option, mysqladmin:              mysqladmin.         (line  386)
* debug option, mysqlbinlog:             mysqlbinlog.        (line  380)
* debug option, mysqlcheck:              mysqlcheck.         (line  319)
* debug option, mysqld:                  server-options.     (line  340)
* debug option, mysqldump:               mysqldump.          (line  656)
* debug option, mysqldumpslow:           mysqldumpslow.      (line   78)
* debug option, mysqlhotcopy:            mysqlhotcopy.       (line  131)
* debug option, mysqlimport:             mysqlimport.        (line  206)
* debug option, mysqlshow:               mysqlshow.          (line  178)
* debug option, mysqlslap:               mysqlslap.          (line  338)
* debug option, mysql_upgrade:           mysql-upgrade.      (line  258)
* debug option, my_print_defaults:       my-print-defaults.  (line   38)
* debug system variable:                 server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  840)
* Debug, thread command:                 thread-commands.    (line   45)
* debug-check option, mysql:             mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  350)
* debug-check option, mysqladmin:        mysqladmin.         (line  392)
* debug-check option, mysqlbinlog:       mysqlbinlog.        (line  386)
* debug-check option, mysqlcheck:        mysqlcheck.         (line  325)
* debug-check option, mysqldump:         mysqldump.          (line  663)
* debug-check option, mysqlimport:       mysqlimport.        (line  212)
* debug-check option, mysqlshow:         mysqlshow.          (line  184)
* debug-check option, mysqlslap:         mysqlslap.          (line  344)
* debug-check option, mysql_upgrade:     mysql-upgrade.      (line  265)
* debug-info option, comp_err:           comp-err.           (line   43)
* debug-info option, mysql:              mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  355)
* debug-info option, mysqladmin:         mysqladmin.         (line  397)
* debug-info option, mysqlbinlog:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  391)
* debug-info option, mysqlcheck:         mysqlcheck.         (line  330)
* debug-info option, mysqldump:          mysqldump.          (line  668)
* debug-info option, mysqlimport:        mysqlimport.        (line  217)
* debug-info option, mysqlshow:          mysqlshow.          (line  189)
* debug-info option, mysqlslap:          mysqlslap.          (line  349)
* debug-info option, mysql_upgrade:      mysql-upgrade.      (line  270)
* debug-sync-timeout option, mysqld:     server-options.     (line  381)
* debugging support:                     source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* debugging, client:                     debugging-client.   (line    6)
* debugging, server:                     debugging-server.   (line   16)
* debug_sync system variable:            server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  902)
* DEC data type:                         numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  194)
* decimal arithmetic:                    precision-math.     (line   14)
* DECIMAL data type:                     numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  177)
* DECIMAL data type <1>:                 precision-math.     (line   14)
* decimal point:                         data-types.         (line   38)
* DECLARE:                               declare.            (line    6)
* DECODE():                              encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  199)
* decode_bits myisamchk variable:        myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* default accounts:                      default-privileges. (line    6)
* default host name:                     connecting.         (line    6)
* default installation location:         installation-layouts.
                                                             (line    6)
* default options:                       option-files.       (line    6)
* default proxy user:                    proxy-users.        (line  228)
* DEFAULT value clause:                  data-type-defaults. (line    6)
* DEFAULT value clause <1>:              create-table.       (line  314)
* default values:                        data-type-defaults. (line    6)
* default values <1>:                    create-table.       (line  314)
* default values <2>:                    insert.             (line   96)
* default values, BLOB and TEXT columns: blob.               (line   52)
* default values, explicit:              data-type-defaults. (line    6)
* default values, implicit:              data-type-defaults. (line    6)
* default values, suppression:           constraint-invalid-data.
                                                             (line    6)
* DEFAULT():                             miscellaneous-functions.
                                                             (line   35)
* DEFAULT, constraint:                   constraint-invalid-data.
                                                             (line    6)
* default, privileges:                   default-privileges. (line    6)
* default-auth option:                   connection-options. (line   56)
* default-auth option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  361)
* default-auth option, mysqladmin:       mysqladmin.         (line  403)
* default-auth option, mysqlbinlog:      mysqlbinlog.        (line  397)
* default-auth option, mysqlcheck:       mysqlcheck.         (line  383)
* default-auth option, mysqldump:        mysqldump.          (line  674)
* default-auth option, mysqlimport:      mysqlimport.        (line  229)
* default-auth option, mysqlshow:        mysqlshow.          (line  201)
* default-auth option, mysqlslap:        mysqlslap.          (line  355)
* default-auth option, mysql_upgrade:    mysql-upgrade.      (line  276)
* default-character-set option, mysql:   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  367)
* default-character-set option, mysqladmin: mysqladmin.      (line  411)
* default-character-set option, mysqlcheck: mysqlcheck.      (line  336)
* default-character-set option, mysqld:  server-options.     (line  408)
* default-character-set option, mysqldump: mysqldump.        (line  682)
* default-character-set option, mysqlimport: mysqlimport.    (line  223)
* default-character-set option, mysqlshow: mysqlshow.        (line  195)
* default-character-set option, mysql_upgrade: mysql-upgrade.
                                                             (line  284)
* default-collation option, mysqld:      server-options.     (line  425)
* default-time-zone option, mysqld:      server-options.     (line  442)
* DefaultHashMapSize:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1243)
* DefaultHashMapSize <1>:                mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  479)
* DefaultOperationRedoProblemAction, API and SQL nodes: mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  437)
* defaults, embedded:                    libmysqld-options.  (line    6)
* defaults-extra-file option:            option-file-options.
                                                             (line   22)
* defaults-extra-file option <1>:        mysql-install-db.   (line  115)
* defaults-extra-file option, myisamchk: myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   30)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysql:     mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  382)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqladmin: mysqladmin.        (line  417)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqlbinlog: mysqlbinlog.      (line  405)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqlcheck: mysqlcheck.        (line  342)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqld:    server-options.     (line  457)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqldump: mysqldump.          (line  689)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqld_multi: mysqld-multi.    (line   69)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqld_safe: mysqld-safe.      (line  132)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqlimport: mysqlimport.      (line  237)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqlshow: mysqlshow.          (line  209)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.          (line  363)
* defaults-extra-file option, mysql_upgrade: mysql-upgrade.  (line  290)
* defaults-extra-file option, my_print_defaults: my-print-defaults.
                                                             (line   45)
* defaults-extra-file option, NDB client programs: mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  167)
* defaults-file option:                  option-file-options.
                                                             (line   35)
* defaults-file option <1>:              mysql-install-db.   (line  127)
* defaults-file option, myisamchk:       myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   41)
* defaults-file option, mysql:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  393)
* defaults-file option, mysqladmin:      mysqladmin.         (line  428)
* defaults-file option, mysqlbinlog:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  416)
* defaults-file option, mysqlcheck:      mysqlcheck.         (line  353)
* defaults-file option, mysqld:          server-options.     (line  470)
* defaults-file option, mysqldump:       mysqldump.          (line  700)
* defaults-file option, mysqld_multi:    mysqld-multi.       (line   66)
* defaults-file option, mysqld_safe:     mysqld-safe.        (line  145)
* defaults-file option, mysqlimport:     mysqlimport.        (line  248)
* defaults-file option, mysqlshow:       mysqlshow.          (line  220)
* defaults-file option, mysqlslap:       mysqlslap.          (line  374)
* defaults-file option, mysql_upgrade:   mysql-upgrade.      (line  302)
* defaults-file option, my_print_defaults: my-print-defaults.
                                                             (line   33)
* defaults-file option, NDB client programs: mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  184)
* defaults-group-suffix option:          option-file-options.
                                                             (line   46)
* defaults-group-suffix option, myisamchk: myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   51)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysql:   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  400)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqladmin: mysqladmin.      (line  435)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqlbinlog: mysqlbinlog.    (line  426)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqlcheck: mysqlcheck.      (line  360)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqld:  server-options.     (line  488)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqldump: mysqldump.        (line  707)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqlimport: mysqlimport.    (line  255)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqlshow: mysqlshow.        (line  227)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.        (line  381)
* defaults-group-suffix option, mysql_upgrade: mysql-upgrade.
                                                             (line  313)
* defaults-group-suffix option, my_print_defaults: my-print-defaults.
                                                             (line   56)
* DEFAULT_CHARSET option, CMake:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  566)
* DEFAULT_COLLATION option, CMake:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  585)
* default_storage_engine system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  944)
* default_week_format system variable:   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line  984)
* DEFINER privileges:                    show-grants.        (line   42)
* DEFINER privileges <1>:                stored-objects-security.
                                                             (line    6)
* DEGREES():                             mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  229)
* delay option (ndbinfo_select_all):     mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all.
                                                             (line   83)
* DELAYED:                               insert-delayed.     (line    6)
* Delayed insert, thread command:        thread-commands.    (line   50)
* delayed inserts, thread states:        delayed-insert-thread-states.
                                                             (line    6)
* DELAYED, INSERT modifier:              insert.             (line  226)
* DELAYED, when ignored:                 insert.             (line  252)
* delayed-insert option, mysqldump:      mysqldump.          (line  720)
* delayed_insert_limit:                  insert-delayed.     (line  131)
* delayed_insert_limit system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1072)
* delayed_insert_timeout system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1109)
* delayed_queue_size system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1131)
* delay_key_write system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1011)
* delay_key_write system variable <1>:   myisam-start.       (line   69)
* DELETE:                                delete.             (line    6)
* delete:                                glossary.           (line  883)
* delete buffering:                      glossary.           (line  890)
* delete option (ndb_index_stat):        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat.
                                                             (line  204)
* delete option, mysqlimport:            mysqlimport.        (line  268)
* DELETE privilege:                      privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  197)
* DELETE, and NDB Cluster:               mysql-cluster-limitations-limits.
                                                             (line    9)
* delete-master-logs option, mysqldump:  mysqldump.          (line  726)
* delete-orphans option, ndb_blob_tool:  mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool.
                                                             (line   98)
* deleting from main table, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  109)
* deleting from reference tables, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  116)
* deleting, accounts:                    creating-accounts.  (line  219)
* deleting, database:                    drop-database.      (line    6)
* deleting, foreign key:                 alter-table.        (line  590)
* deleting, foreign key <1>:             create-table-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line  255)
* deleting, function:                    drop-function-udf.  (line    6)
* deleting, index:                       alter-table.        (line  517)
* deleting, index <1>:                   drop-index.         (line    6)
* deleting, primary key:                 alter-table.        (line  488)
* deleting, rows:                        deleting-from-related-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* deleting, schema:                      drop-database.      (line    6)
* deleting, table:                       drop-table.         (line    6)
* deleting, user:                        drop-user.          (line    6)
* deleting, users:                       drop-user.          (line    6)
* deletion, mysql.sock:                  problems-with-mysql-sock.
                                                             (line    6)
* delimiter command, mysql:              mysql-commands.     (line   86)
* delimiter option, mysql:               mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  412)
* delimiter option, mysqlslap:           mysqlslap.          (line  394)
* delimiter option, ndb_select_all:      mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line  137)
* denormalized:                          glossary.           (line  898)
* deprecated features in MySQL 5.5:      mysql-nutshell.     (line    6)
* derived tables:                        derived-tables.     (line    6)
* des-key-file option, mysqld:           server-options.     (line  500)
* DESC:                                  describe.           (line    6)
* descending index:                      glossary.           (line  905)
* descending option, ndb_select_all:     mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line  119)
* DESCRIBE:                              getting-information.
                                                             (line    6)
* DESCRIBE <1>:                          describe.           (line    6)
* description option, myisamchk:         myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   25)
* design, issues:                        known-issues.       (line    6)
* DES_DECRYPT():                         encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  205)
* DES_ENCRYPT():                         encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  227)
* detach option, mysqlslap:              mysqlslap.          (line  400)
* development of NDB Cluster:            mysql-cluster-what-is-new.
                                                             (line    6)
* development source tree:               installing-development-tree.
                                                             (line    6)
* dictionary collation, German:          charset-mysql.      (line   77)
* dictionary collation, German <1>:      charset-we-sets.    (line   69)
* dictionary collation, German <2>:      charset-we-sets.    (line   77)
* digits:                                data-types.         (line   38)
* Dimension():                           gis-general-property-functions.
                                                             (line   11)
* directory structure, default:          installation-layouts.
                                                             (line    6)
* dirty page:                            innodb-parameters.  (line  390)
* dirty page <1>:                        glossary.           (line  911)
* dirty read:                            glossary.           (line  915)
* disable named command, mysql:          mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  418)
* disable-indexes option, ndb_restore:   mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  441)
* disable-keys option, mysqldump:        mysqldump.          (line  734)
* disable-log-bin option, mysqlbinlog:   mysqlbinlog.        (line  439)
* DISCARD TABLESPACE:                    alter-table.        (line  694)
* discard_or_import_tablespace, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  122)
* disconnect-slave-event-count option, mysqld: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line   69)
* disconnecting, from the server:        connecting-disconnecting.
                                                             (line    6)
* Disjoint():                            spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   97)
* Disk Data tables (NDB Cluster):        mysql-cluster-disk-data.
                                                             (line   12)
* disk failure, InnoDB:                  innodb-recovery.    (line   25)
* disk full:                             full-disk.          (line    6)
* disk I/O:                              optimizing-innodb-diskio.
                                                             (line    6)
* disk option, ndb_select_all:           mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line  145)
* disk performance:                      disk-issues.        (line    6)
* disk-based:                            glossary.           (line  929)
* disk-bound:                            glossary.           (line  937)
* DiskCheckpointSpeed:                   mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2967)
* DiskCheckpointSpeedInRestart:          mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2994)
* DiskIOThreadPool:                      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4629)
* DiskIOThreadPool <1>:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4958)
* Diskless:                              mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2062)
* diskpagebuffer, ndbinfo table:         mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-diskpagebuffer.
                                                             (line    6)
* DiskPageBufferEntries:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4521)
* DiskPageBufferMemory:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4546)
* DiskPageBufferMemory <1>:              mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4958)
* disks, splitting data across:          windows-symbolic-links.
                                                             (line    6)
* DiskSyncSize:                          mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2936)
* display size:                          data-types.         (line   34)
* display triggers:                      show-triggers.      (line    6)
* display width:                         data-types.         (line   34)
* displaying, database information:      mysqlshow.          (line    6)
* displaying, information, Cardinality:  show-index.         (line   84)
* displaying, information, Collation:    show-index.         (line   79)
* displaying, information, SHOW:         show.               (line   50)
* displaying, information, SHOW <1>:     show-columns.       (line    6)
* displaying, information, SHOW <2>:     show-tables.        (line    6)
* displaying, information, SHOW statement: show-index.       (line    6)
* displaying, information, SHOW statement <1>: show-open-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* displaying, table status:              show-table-status.  (line    6)
* DISTINCT:                              selecting-columns.  (line   43)
* DISTINCT <1>:                          distinct-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* DISTINCT, AVG():                       group-by-functions. (line   84)
* DISTINCT, COUNT():                     group-by-functions. (line  174)
* DISTINCT, MAX():                       group-by-functions. (line  245)
* DISTINCT, MIN():                       group-by-functions. (line  265)
* DISTINCT, SELECT modifier:             select.             (line  386)
* DISTINCT, SUM():                       group-by-functions. (line  320)
* DISTINCTROW, SELECT modifier:          select.             (line  386)
* distributed privileges (NDB Cluster):  mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution.
                                                             (line    6)
* distributed privileges (NDB Cluster), and NDB API applications: mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution.
                                                             (line  222)
* DIV:                                   arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line  126)
* division (/):                          arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line  110)
* div_precision_increment system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1168)
* DML:                                   glossary.           (line  941)
* DML, DELETE statement:                 delete.             (line    6)
* DML, INSERT statement:                 insert.             (line   12)
* DML, UPDATE statement:                 update.             (line    6)
* DNS:                                   host-cache.         (line    6)
* DO:                                    do.                 (line    6)
* DocBook XML, documentation source format: manual-info.     (line   31)
* document id:                           glossary.           (line  954)
* Documentation, in Chinese:             faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* Documentation, in Japanese:            faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* Documentation, in Korean:              faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* Documenters, list of:                  documenters-translators.
                                                             (line    6)
* dont-ignore-systab-0 option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  455)
* DOUBLE data type:                      numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  244)
* DOUBLE PRECISION data type:            numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  264)
* double quote (\"):                     string-literals.    (line   82)
* doublewrite buffer:                    innodb-disk-io.     (line   36)
* doublewrite buffer <1>:                glossary.           (line  963)
* downgrades, NDB Cluster:               mysql-cluster-upgrade-downgrade.
                                                             (line    6)
* downgrades, NDB Cluster <1>:           mysql-cluster-rolling-restart.
                                                             (line    6)
* downgrading:                           downgrading.        (line   15)
* downgrading <1>:                       innodb-downgrading. (line    6)
* downloading:                           getting-mysql.      (line    6)
* drop:                                  glossary.           (line  980)
* DROP ... IF EXISTS, and replication:   replication-features-drop-if-exists.
                                                             (line    6)
* DROP DATABASE:                         drop-database.      (line    6)
* Drop DB, thread command:               thread-commands.    (line   55)
* DROP EVENT:                            drop-event.         (line    6)
* DROP FOREIGN KEY:                      alter-table.        (line  590)
* DROP FOREIGN KEY <1>:                  create-table-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line  255)
* DROP FUNCTION:                         drop-procedure.     (line    6)
* DROP FUNCTION statement:               drop-function-udf.  (line    6)
* DROP INDEX:                            alter-table.        (line  517)
* DROP INDEX <1>:                        drop-index.         (line    6)
* DROP INDEX <2>:                        innodb-create-index-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* DROP LOGFILE GROUP:                    drop-logfile-group. (line    6)
* DROP NODEGROUP command (NDB Cluster):  mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line  237)
* DROP PREPARE:                          deallocate-prepare. (line    6)
* DROP PRIMARY KEY:                      alter-table.        (line  488)
* DROP privilege:                        privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  201)
* DROP PROCEDURE:                        drop-procedure.     (line    6)
* DROP SCHEMA:                           drop-database.      (line    6)
* DROP SERVER:                           drop-server.        (line    6)
* DROP TABLE:                            drop-table.         (line    6)
* DROP TABLE, and NDB Cluster:           mysql-cluster-limitations-limits.
                                                             (line    9)
* DROP TABLESPACE:                       drop-tablespace.    (line    6)
* DROP TRIGGER:                          drop-trigger.       (line    6)
* DROP USER statement:                   creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* DROP USER statement <1>:               drop-user.          (line    6)
* DROP VIEW:                             drop-view.          (line    6)
* drop-source option, ndb_move_data:     mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line  120)
* dropping, accounts:                    creating-accounts.  (line  219)
* dropping, user:                        drop-user.          (line    6)
* dry-scp option (ndb_error_reporter):   mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter.
                                                             (line   84)
* dryrun option, mysqlhotcopy:           mysqlhotcopy.       (line  136)
* DTrace:                                dba-dtrace-server.  (line   10)
* DTrace, and memcached:                 ha-memcached-using-dtrace.
                                                             (line    6)
* DUAL:                                  select.             (line   70)
* dump option (ndb_index_stat):          mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat.
                                                             (line  242)
* dump option, myisam_ftdump:            myisam-ftdump.      (line   74)
* dump option, ndb_redo_log_reader:      mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader.
                                                             (line  104)
* dump-date option, mysqldump:           mysqldump.          (line  744)
* dump-file option, ndb_blob_tool:       mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-blob-tool.
                                                             (line  112)
* dump-slave option, mysqldump:          mysqldump.          (line  758)
* DUMPFILE:                              select-into.        (line  130)
* dumping, databases and tables:         mysqldump.          (line    6)
* dumping, databases and tables <1>:     mysqlhotcopy.       (line    6)
* duplicate-key error:                   innodb-auto-increment-handling.
                                                             (line  492)
* DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable: c-api-running-clients.
                                                             (line   33)
* dynamic row format:                    innodb-row-format.  (line  246)
* dynamic row format <1>:                glossary.           (line  991)
* dynamic table characteristics:         dynamic-format.     (line    6)
* early adopter:                         glossary.           (line 1009)
* edit command, mysql:                   mysql-commands.     (line  122)
* EE_BADCLOSE error code:                global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   32)
* EE_CANTCREATEFILE error code:          global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   17)
* EE_CANTLOCK error code:                global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   57)
* EE_CANTUNLOCK error code:              global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   62)
* EE_CANT_CHSIZE error code:             global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   77)
* EE_CANT_MKDIR error code:              global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  114)
* EE_CANT_OPEN_STREAM error code:        global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   82)
* EE_CANT_READLINK error code:           global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  130)
* EE_CANT_SEEK error code:               global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  180)
* EE_CANT_SYMLINK error code:            global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  135)
* EE_CHANGE_OWNERSHIP error code:        global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  166)
* EE_CHANGE_PERMISSIONS error code:      global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  173)
* EE_DELETE error code:                  global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   42)
* EE_DIR error code:                     global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   67)
* EE_DISK_FULL error code:               global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  107)
* EE_EOFERR error code:                  global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   52)
* EE_FILENOTFOUND error code:            global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  156)
* EE_FILE_NOT_CLOSED error code:         global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  161)
* EE_GETWD error code:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   87)
* EE_LINK error code:                    global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   47)
* EE_LINK_WARNING error code:            global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   97)
* EE_OPEN_WARNING error code:            global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  102)
* EE_OUTOFMEMORY error code:             global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   37)
* EE_OUT_OF_FILERESOURCES error code:    global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  125)
* EE_READ error code:                    global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   22)
* EE_REALPATH error code:                global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  140)
* EE_SETWD error code:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   92)
* EE_STAT error code:                    global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   72)
* EE_SYNC error code:                    global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  145)
* EE_UNKNOWN_CHARSET error code:         global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  119)
* EE_UNKNOWN_COLLATION error code:       global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  150)
* EE_WRITE error code:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   27)
* ego command, mysql:                    mysql-commands.     (line  132)
* Eiffel Wrapper:                        apis-eiffel.        (line    6)
* ELT():                                 string-functions.   (line  295)
* embedded MySQL server library:         libmysqld.          (line   13)
* embedded option, mysql_config:         mysql-config.       (line   28)
* embedded-libs option, mysql_config:    mysql-config.       (line   28)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysql: mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  427)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysqladmin: mysqladmin.    (line  448)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysqlcheck: mysqlcheck.    (line  391)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysqldump: mysqldump.      (line  859)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysqlimport: mysqlimport.  (line  273)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysqlshow: mysqlshow.      (line  240)
* enable-cleartext-plugin option, mysqlslap: mysqlslap.      (line  406)
* enable-pstack option, mysqld:          server-options.     (line  519)
* ENABLED_LOCAL_INFILE option, CMake:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  637)
* ENABLED_PROFILING option, CMake:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  662)
* ENABLE_DEBUG_SYNC option, CMake:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  595)
* ENABLE_DOWNLOADS option, CMake:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  619)
* ENABLE_DTRACE option, CMake:           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  626)
* ENABLE_GCOV option, CMake:             source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  632)
* ENCODE():                              encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  279)
* ENCRYPT():                             encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  295)
* encrypted connections:                 encrypted-connections.
                                                             (line   14)
* encrypted connections, command options: connection-options.
                                                             (line  178)
* encryption:                            encrypted-connections.
                                                             (line   18)
* encryption functions:                  encryption-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* END:                                   begin-end.          (line    6)
* end, thread state:                     general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  128)
* EndPoint():                            gis-linestring-property-functions.
                                                             (line   12)
* engine condition pushdown:             condition-pushdown-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* engine option, mysqlslap:              mysqlslap.          (line  413)
* ENGINES, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:     engines-table.      (line    6)
* engine_condition_pushdown system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1210)
* ENTER SINGLE USER MODE command (NDB Cluster): mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line  180)
* entering, queries:                     entering-queries.   (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Audit: audit-log.  (line   17)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Audit <1>: mysql-enterprise-audit.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Backup: mysql-enterprise-backup.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Data Masking and De-Identification: mysql-enterprise-data-masking.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Encryption: mysql-enterprise-encryption.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Firewall: mysql-enterprise-firewall.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Monitor: mysql-enterprise-monitor.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Security: pam-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Security <1>: windows-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Security <2>: mysql-enterprise-security.
                                                             (line    6)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Thread Pool: thread-pool.
                                                             (line   13)
* enterprise components, MySQL Enterprise Thread Pool <1>: mysql-enterprise-thread-pool.
                                                             (line    6)
* ENUM data type:                        string-type-syntax. (line  272)
* ENUM data type <1>:                    enum.               (line    6)
* ENUM, size:                            storage-requirements.
                                                             (line  291)
* Envelope():                            gis-general-property-functions.
                                                             (line   24)
* environment variable, AUTHENTICATION_PAM_LOG: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, AUTHENTICATION_PAM_LOG <1>: pam-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line  741)
* environment variable, CC:              compilation-problems.
                                                             (line   44)
* environment variable, CC <1>:          environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, CXX:             compilation-problems.
                                                             (line   44)
* environment variable, CXX <1>:         environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, DBI_TRACE:       environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, DBI_TRACE <1>:   using-gdb-on-mysqld.
                                                             (line   83)
* environment variable, DBI_USER:        environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH: c-api-running-clients.
                                                             (line   33)
* environment variable, HOME:            mysql-logging.      (line    6)
* environment variable, HOME <1>:        environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, LD_LIBRARY_PATH: perl-support-problems.
                                                             (line   21)
* environment variable, LD_LIBRARY_PATH <1>: c-api-running-clients.
                                                             (line   33)
* environment variable, LD_RUN_PATH:     perl-support-problems.
                                                             (line   21)
* environment variable, LD_RUN_PATH <1>: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, LIBMYSQL_ENABLE_CLEARTEXT_PLUGIN: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, LIBMYSQL_PLUGINS: mysql-load-plugin. (line   34)
* environment variable, MYSQL_DEBUG:     programs-overview.  (line  312)
* environment variable, MYSQL_DEBUG <1>: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_DEBUG <2>: debugging-client.   (line   10)
* environment variable, MYSQL_GROUP_SUFFIX: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_HISTFILE:  mysql-logging.      (line    6)
* environment variable, MYSQL_HISTFILE <1>: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_HOME:      environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_HOST:      connecting.         (line  192)
* environment variable, MYSQL_HOST <1>:  environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_PS1:       environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_PWD:       programs-overview.  (line  312)
* environment variable, MYSQL_PWD <1>:   connecting.         (line  192)
* environment variable, MYSQL_PWD <2>:   environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_TCP_PORT:  programs-overview.  (line  312)
* environment variable, MYSQL_TCP_PORT <1>: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_TCP_PORT <2>: multiple-unix-servers.
                                                             (line   69)
* environment variable, MYSQL_TCP_PORT <3>: multiple-server-clients.
                                                             (line   28)
* environment variable, MYSQL_UNIX_PORT: mysql-install-db-problems.
                                                             (line   83)
* environment variable, MYSQL_UNIX_PORT <1>: programs-overview.
                                                             (line  312)
* environment variable, MYSQL_UNIX_PORT <2>: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, MYSQL_UNIX_PORT <3>: multiple-unix-servers.
                                                             (line   69)
* environment variable, MYSQL_UNIX_PORT <4>: multiple-server-clients.
                                                             (line   28)
* environment variable, PATH:            mysql-installation-windows-path.
                                                             (line    6)
* environment variable, PATH <1>:        windows-postinstallation.
                                                             (line   56)
* environment variable, PATH <2>:        testing-server.     (line   13)
* environment variable, PATH <3>:        invoking-programs.  (line   48)
* environment variable, PATH <4>:        environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, TMPDIR:          mysql-install-db-problems.
                                                             (line   83)
* environment variable, TMPDIR <1>:      programs-overview.  (line  312)
* environment variable, TMPDIR <2>:      environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, TMPDIR <3>:      temporary-files.    (line    6)
* environment variable, TZ:              environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, TZ <1>:          time-zone-support.  (line   30)
* environment variable, TZ <2>:          timezone-problems.  (line    6)
* environment variable, UMASK:           environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, UMASK <1>:       file-permissions.   (line    6)
* environment variable, UMASK_DIR:       environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variable, UMASK_DIR <1>:   file-permissions.   (line   36)
* environment variable, USER:            connecting.         (line  192)
* environment variable, USER <1>:        environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* environment variables:                 programs-overview.  (line  309)
* environment variables <1>:             setting-environment-variables.
                                                             (line    6)
* environment variables <2>:             problems-connecting.
                                                             (line  100)
* environment variables, list of:        environment-variables.
                                                             (line    6)
* equal (=):                             comparison-operators.
                                                             (line   89)
* Equals():                              spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line  103)
* eq_ref join type, optimizer:           explain-output.     (line  290)
* Errcode:                               perror.             (line    6)
* errno:                                 perror.             (line    6)
* error code, CR_ALREADY_CONNECTED:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  355)
* error code, CR_AUTH_PLUGIN_CANNOT_LOAD: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  361)
* error code, CR_CANT_READ_CHARSET:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  135)
* error code, CR_COMMANDS_OUT_OF_SYNC:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  102)
* error code, CR_CONNECTION_ERROR:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   40)
* error code, CR_CONN_HOST_ERROR:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   46)
* error code, CR_CONN_UNKNOW_PROTOCOL:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  295)
* error code, CR_DATA_TRUNCATED:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  201)
* error code, CR_EMBEDDED_CONNECTION:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  145)
* error code, CR_FETCH_CANCELED:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  311)
* error code, CR_INVALID_BUFFER_USE:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  222)
* error code, CR_INVALID_CONN_HANDLE:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  300)
* error code, CR_INVALID_PARAMETER_NO:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  211)
* error code, CR_IPSOCK_ERROR:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   51)
* error code, CR_LOCALHOST_CONNECTION:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   82)
* error code, CR_MALFORMED_PACKET:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  175)
* error code, CR_NAMEDPIPEOPEN_ERROR:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  125)
* error code, CR_NAMEDPIPESETSTATE_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  130)
* error code, CR_NAMEDPIPEWAIT_ERROR:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  120)
* error code, CR_NAMEDPIPE_CONNECTION:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  115)
* error code, CR_NET_PACKET_TOO_LARGE:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  140)
* error code, CR_NEW_STMT_METADATA:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  348)
* error code, CR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  332)
* error code, CR_NO_DATA:                client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  316)
* error code, CR_NO_PARAMETERS_EXISTS:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  206)
* error code, CR_NO_PREPARE_STMT:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  191)
* error code, CR_NO_RESULT_SET:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  326)
* error code, CR_NO_STMT_METADATA:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  321)
* error code, CR_NULL_POINTER:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  186)
* error code, CR_OUT_OF_MEMORY:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   72)
* error code, CR_PARAMS_NOT_BOUND:       client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  196)
* error code, CR_PROBE_MASTER_CONNECT:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  165)
* error code, CR_PROBE_SLAVE_CONNECT:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  160)
* error code, CR_PROBE_SLAVE_HOSTS:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  155)
* error code, CR_PROBE_SLAVE_STATUS:     client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  150)
* error code, CR_SECURE_AUTH:            client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  305)
* error code, CR_SERVER_GONE_ERROR:      client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   61)
* error code, CR_SERVER_HANDSHAKE_ERR:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   92)
* error code, CR_SERVER_LOST:            client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   97)
* error code, CR_SERVER_LOST_EXTENDED:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  337)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECTION: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  233)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_ABANDONED_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  283)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_ANSWER_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  245)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_FILE_MAP_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  252)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_MAP_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  259)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_REQUEST_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  238)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_CONNECT_SET_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  289)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_EVENT_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  277)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_FILE_MAP_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  265)
* error code, CR_SHARED_MEMORY_MAP_ERROR: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  271)
* error code, CR_SOCKET_CREATE_ERROR:    client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   35)
* error code, CR_SSL_CONNECTION_ERROR:   client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  170)
* error code, CR_STMT_CLOSED:            client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  342)
* error code, CR_TCP_CONNECTION:         client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   87)
* error code, CR_UNKNOWN_ERROR:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   30)
* error code, CR_UNKNOWN_HOST:           client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   56)
* error code, CR_UNSUPPORTED_PARAM_TYPE: client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  228)
* error code, CR_VERSION_ERROR:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   66)
* error code, CR_WRONG_HOST_INFO:        client-error-reference.
                                                             (line   77)
* error code, CR_WRONG_LICENSE:          client-error-reference.
                                                             (line  180)
* error code, EE_BADCLOSE:               global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   33)
* error code, EE_CANTCREATEFILE:         global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   18)
* error code, EE_CANTLOCK:               global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   58)
* error code, EE_CANTUNLOCK:             global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   63)
* error code, EE_CANT_CHSIZE:            global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   78)
* error code, EE_CANT_MKDIR:             global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  115)
* error code, EE_CANT_OPEN_STREAM:       global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   83)
* error code, EE_CANT_READLINK:          global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  131)
* error code, EE_CANT_SEEK:              global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  181)
* error code, EE_CANT_SYMLINK:           global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  136)
* error code, EE_CHANGE_OWNERSHIP:       global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  167)
* error code, EE_CHANGE_PERMISSIONS:     global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  174)
* error code, EE_DELETE:                 global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   43)
* error code, EE_DIR:                    global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   68)
* error code, EE_DISK_FULL:              global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  108)
* error code, EE_EOFERR:                 global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   53)
* error code, EE_FILENOTFOUND:           global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  157)
* error code, EE_FILE_NOT_CLOSED:        global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  162)
* error code, EE_GETWD:                  global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   88)
* error code, EE_LINK:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   48)
* error code, EE_LINK_WARNING:           global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   98)
* error code, EE_OPEN_WARNING:           global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  103)
* error code, EE_OUTOFMEMORY:            global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   38)
* error code, EE_OUT_OF_FILERESOURCES:   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  126)
* error code, EE_READ:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   23)
* error code, EE_REALPATH:               global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  141)
* error code, EE_SETWD:                  global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   93)
* error code, EE_STAT:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   73)
* error code, EE_SYNC:                   global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  146)
* error code, EE_UNKNOWN_CHARSET:        global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  120)
* error code, EE_UNKNOWN_COLLATION:      global-error-reference.
                                                             (line  151)
* error code, EE_WRITE:                  global-error-reference.
                                                             (line   28)
* error code, ER_ABORTING_CONNECTION:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1009)
* error code, ER_ACCESS_DENIED_ERROR:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  330)
* error code, ER_ACCESS_DENIED_NO_PASSWORD_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4652)
* error code, ER_ADD_PARTITION_NO_NEW_PARTITION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3357)
* error code, ER_ADD_PARTITION_SUBPART_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3350)
* error code, ER_ADMIN_WRONG_MRG_TABLE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3065)
* error code, ER_ALTER_FILEGROUP_FAILED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3475)
* error code, ER_ALTER_INFO:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  607)
* error code, ER_AMBIGUOUS_FIELD_TERM:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3084)
* error code, ER_AUTOINC_READ_FAILED:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3036)
* error code, ER_AUTO_CONVERT:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1649)
* error code, ER_BAD_DB_ERROR:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  353)
* error code, ER_BAD_FIELD_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  406)
* error code, ER_BAD_FT_COLUMN:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1887)
* error code, ER_BAD_HOST_ERROR:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  312)
* error code, ER_BAD_LOG_STATEMENT:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3794)
* error code, ER_BAD_NULL_ERROR:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  347)
* error code, ER_BAD_SLAVE:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1323)
* error code, ER_BAD_SLAVE_UNTIL_COND:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1846)
* error code, ER_BAD_TABLE_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  364)
* error code, ER_BASE64_DECODE_ERROR:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3759)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_CREATE_ROUTINE_NEED_SUPER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2712)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_LOGGING_IMPOSSIBLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3910)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_MULTIPLE_ENGINES_AND_SELF_LOGGING_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4369)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_PURGE_EMFILE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3841)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_PURGE_FATAL_ERR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2460)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_PURGE_PROHIBITED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2449)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_ENGINE_AND_STMT_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4310)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_INJECTION_AND_STMT_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4340)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_INJECTION_AND_STMT_MODE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4360)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_LOGGING_FAILED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3481)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_MODE_AND_STMT_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4320)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_RBR_TO_SBR:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3493)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_ROW_WRONG_TABLE_DEF: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3487)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_STMT_MODE_AND_ROW_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4350)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_AND_STMT_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4330)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_AUTOINC_COLUMNS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4411)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_AUTOINC_NOT_FIRST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4925)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_CREATE_IGNORE_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4825)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_CREATE_REPLACE_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4836)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_CREATE_SELECT_AUTOINC: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4887)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_DELAYED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4391)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_IGNORE_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4792)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_SELECT_UPDATE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4803)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_TWO_KEYS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4899)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_LIMIT:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4381)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_MIXED_STATEMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4607)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_MULTIPLE_ENGINES_AND_SELF_LOGGING_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4596)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_NONTRANS_AFTER_TRANS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4448)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_REPLACE_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4814)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_ROUTINE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2703)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_STATEMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3873)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_SYSTEM_FUNCTION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4439)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_SYSTEM_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4401)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_SYSTEM_VARIABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4430)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_UDF:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4421)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_UPDATE_IGNORE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4847)
* error code, ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_WRITE_AUTOINC_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4875)
* error code, ER_BLOBS_AND_NO_TERMINATED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  582)
* error code, ER_BLOB_CANT_HAVE_DEFAULT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  690)
* error code, ER_BLOB_FIELD_IN_PART_FUNC_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3279)
* error code, ER_BLOB_KEY_WITHOUT_LENGTH: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1118)
* error code, ER_BLOB_USED_AS_KEY:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  515)
* error code, ER_CANNOT_ADD_FOREIGN:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1448)
* error code, ER_CANNOT_LOAD_FROM_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3569)
* error code, ER_CANNOT_USER:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2571)
* error code, ER_CANT_ACTIVATE_LOG:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3747)
* error code, ER_CANT_AGGREGATE_2COLLATIONS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1779)
* error code, ER_CANT_AGGREGATE_3COLLATIONS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1797)
* error code, ER_CANT_AGGREGATE_NCOLLATIONS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1804)
* error code, ER_CANT_CHANGE_TX_ISOLATION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3714)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_DB:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   89)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_FEDERATED_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2814)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_FILE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   64)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_GEOMETRY_OBJECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2687)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_HANDLER_FILE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3273)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_SROUTINE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3964)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_TABLE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   76)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_THREAD:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  901)
* error code, ER_CANT_CREATE_USER_WITH_GRANT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2651)
* error code, ER_CANT_DELETE_FILE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  126)
* error code, ER_CANT_DO_THIS_DURING_AN_TRANSACTION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1189)
* error code, ER_CANT_DROP_FIELD_OR_KEY: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  626)
* error code, ER_CANT_FIND_DL_ENTRY:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  851)
* error code, ER_CANT_FIND_SYSTEM_REC:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  132)
* error code, ER_CANT_FIND_UDF:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  824)
* error code, ER_CANT_GET_STAT:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  141)
* error code, ER_CANT_GET_WD:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  146)
* error code, ER_CANT_INITIALIZE_UDF:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  829)
* error code, ER_CANT_LOCK:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  151)
* error code, ER_CANT_LOCK_LOG_TABLE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3636)
* error code, ER_CANT_OPEN_FILE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  156)
* error code, ER_CANT_OPEN_LIBRARY:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  845)
* error code, ER_CANT_READ_DIR:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  172)
* error code, ER_CANT_REMOVE_ALL_FIELDS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  619)
* error code, ER_CANT_RENAME_LOG_TABLE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3800)
* error code, ER_CANT_REOPEN_TABLE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  915)
* error code, ER_CANT_SET_WD:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  177)
* error code, ER_CANT_UPDATE_USED_TABLE_IN_SF_OR_TRG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2862)
* error code, ER_CANT_UPDATE_WITH_READLOCK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1506)
* error code, ER_CANT_USE_OPTION_HERE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1576)
* error code, ER_CANT_WRITE_LOCK_LOG_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3629)
* error code, ER_CHECKREAD:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  182)
* error code, ER_CHECK_NOT_IMPLEMENTED:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1183)
* error code, ER_CHECK_NO_SUCH_TABLE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1177)
* error code, ER_COALESCE_ONLY_ON_HASH_PARTITION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3324)
* error code, ER_COALESCE_PARTITION_NO_PARTITION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3363)
* error code, ER_COLLATION_CHARSET_MISMATCH: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1691)
* error code, ER_COLUMNACCESS_DENIED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  951)
* error code, ER_COL_COUNT_DOESNT_MATCH_CORRUPTED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3562)
* error code, ER_COL_COUNT_DOESNT_MATCH_PLEASE_UPDATE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3649)
* error code, ER_COMMIT_NOT_ALLOWED_IN_SF_OR_TRG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2733)
* error code, ER_COND_ITEM_TOO_LONG:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4227)
* error code, ER_CONFLICTING_DECLARATIONS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2007)
* error code, ER_CONFLICT_FN_PARSE_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4097)
* error code, ER_CONNECT_TO_FOREIGN_DATA_SOURCE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2780)
* error code, ER_CONNECT_TO_MASTER:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1476)
* error code, ER_CONSECUTIVE_REORG_PARTITIONS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3387)
* error code, ER_CONST_EXPR_IN_PARTITION_FUNC_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3159)
* error code, ER_CON_COUNT_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  298)
* error code, ER_CORRUPT_HELP_DB:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1637)
* error code, ER_CRASHED_ON_REPAIR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1287)
* error code, ER_CRASHED_ON_USAGE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1281)
* error code, ER_CREATE_DB_WITH_READ_LOCK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1395)
* error code, ER_CREATE_FILEGROUP_FAILED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3443)
* error code, ER_CUT_VALUE_GROUP_CONCAT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1735)
* error code, ER_CYCLIC_REFERENCE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1643)
* error code, ER_DATABASE_NAME:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4128)
* error code, ER_DATA_OUT_OF_RANGE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4580)
* error code, ER_DATA_TOO_LONG:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2627)
* error code, ER_DATETIME_FUNCTION_OVERFLOW: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2856)
* error code, ER_DBACCESS_DENIED_ERROR:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  324)
* error code, ER_DB_CREATE_EXISTS:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   95)
* error code, ER_DB_DROP_DELETE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  115)
* error code, ER_DB_DROP_EXISTS:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  109)
* error code, ER_DB_DROP_RMDIR:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  121)
* error code, ER_DDL_LOG_ERROR:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3697)
* error code, ER_DEBUG_SYNC_HIT_LIMIT:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4179)
* error code, ER_DEBUG_SYNC_TIMEOUT:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4173)
* error code, ER_DELAYED_CANT_CHANGE_LOCK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  996)
* error code, ER_DELAYED_INSERT_TABLE_LOCKED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1087)
* error code, ER_DELAYED_NOT_SUPPORTED:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4035)
* error code, ER_DERIVED_MUST_HAVE_ALIAS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1660)
* error code, ER_DIFF_GROUPS_PROC:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2501)
* error code, ER_DISK_FULL:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  187)
* error code, ER_DIVISION_BY_ZERO:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2390)
* error code, ER_DROP_DB_WITH_READ_LOCK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1388)
* error code, ER_DROP_FILEGROUP_FAILED:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3449)
* error code, ER_DROP_INDEX_FK:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3600)
* error code, ER_DROP_LAST_PARTITION:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3318)
* error code, ER_DROP_PARTITION_NON_EXISTENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3312)
* error code, ER_DROP_USER:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1786)
* error code, ER_DUMP_NOT_IMPLEMENTED:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1227)
* error code, ER_DUPLICATED_VALUE_IN_TYPE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1938)
* error code, ER_DUP_ARGUMENT:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1520)
* error code, ER_DUP_ENTRY:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  452)
* error code, ER_DUP_ENTRY_AUTOINCREMENT_CASE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3721)
* error code, ER_DUP_ENTRY_WITH_KEY_NAME: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3833)
* error code, ER_DUP_FIELDNAME:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  442)
* error code, ER_DUP_KEY:                server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  192)
* error code, ER_DUP_KEYNAME:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  447)
* error code, ER_DUP_SIGNAL_SET:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4185)
* error code, ER_DUP_UNIQUE:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1113)
* error code, ER_EMPTY_QUERY:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  471)
* error code, ER_ERROR_DURING_CHECKPOINT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1214)
* error code, ER_ERROR_DURING_COMMIT:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1196)
* error code, ER_ERROR_DURING_FLUSH_LOGS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1208)
* error code, ER_ERROR_DURING_ROLLBACK:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1202)
* error code, ER_ERROR_IN_TRIGGER_BODY:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4761)
* error code, ER_ERROR_IN_UNKNOWN_TRIGGER_BODY: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4769)
* error code, ER_ERROR_ON_CLOSE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  197)
* error code, ER_ERROR_ON_READ:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  203)
* error code, ER_ERROR_ON_RENAME:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  208)
* error code, ER_ERROR_ON_WRITE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  218)
* error code, ER_ERROR_WHEN_EXECUTING_COMMAND: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1488)
* error code, ER_EVENTS_DB_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3772)
* error code, ER_EVENT_ALREADY_EXISTS:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3500)
* error code, ER_EVENT_CANNOT_ALTER_IN_THE_PAST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3854)
* error code, ER_EVENT_CANNOT_CREATE_IN_THE_PAST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3847)
* error code, ER_EVENT_CANNOT_DELETE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3576)
* error code, ER_EVENT_CANT_ALTER:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3519)
* error code, ER_EVENT_COMPILE_ERROR:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3582)
* error code, ER_EVENT_DATA_TOO_LONG:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3594)
* error code, ER_EVENT_DOES_NOT_EXIST:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3513)
* error code, ER_EVENT_DROP_FAILED:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3525)
* error code, ER_EVENT_ENDS_BEFORE_STARTS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3537)
* error code, ER_EVENT_EXEC_TIME_IN_THE_PAST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3543)
* error code, ER_EVENT_INTERVAL_NOT_POSITIVE_OR_TOO_BIG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3531)
* error code, ER_EVENT_INVALID_CREATION_CTX: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3952)
* error code, ER_EVENT_MODIFY_QUEUE_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3728)
* error code, ER_EVENT_NEITHER_M_EXPR_NOR_M_AT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3556)
* error code, ER_EVENT_OPEN_TABLE_FAILED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3550)
* error code, ER_EVENT_RECURSION_FORBIDDEN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3765)
* error code, ER_EVENT_SAME_NAME:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3588)
* error code, ER_EVENT_SET_VAR_ERROR:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3734)
* error code, ER_EVENT_STORE_FAILED:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3506)
* error code, ER_EXCEPTIONS_WRITE_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4103)
* error code, ER_EXEC_STMT_WITH_OPEN_CURSOR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2720)
* error code, ER_FAILED_READ_FROM_PAR_FILE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4636)
* error code, ER_FAILED_ROUTINE_BREAK_BINLOG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2694)
* error code, ER_FEATURE_DISABLED:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1924)
* error code, ER_FIELD_NOT_FOUND_PART_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3189)
* error code, ER_FIELD_SPECIFIED_TWICE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  743)
* error code, ER_FIELD_TYPE_NOT_ALLOWED_AS_PARTITION_FIELD: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4297)
* error code, ER_FILEGROUP_OPTION_ONLY_ONCE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3437)
* error code, ER_FILE_EXISTS_ERROR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  596)
* error code, ER_FILE_NOT_FOUND:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  166)
* error code, ER_FILE_USED:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  224)
* error code, ER_FILSORT_ABORT:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  229)
* error code, ER_FLUSH_MASTER_BINLOG_CLOSED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1234)
* error code, ER_FORBID_SCHEMA_CHANGE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2918)
* error code, ER_FORCING_CLOSE:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  559)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_DATA_SOURCE_DOESNT_EXIST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2793)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_DATA_STRING_INVALID: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2807)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_DATA_STRING_INVALID_CANT_CREATE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2800)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_DUPLICATE_KEY:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3642)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_KEY_ON_PARTITIONED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3305)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_SERVER_DOESNT_EXIST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3098)
* error code, ER_FOREIGN_SERVER_EXISTS:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3091)
* error code, ER_FORM_NOT_FOUND:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  234)
* error code, ER_FPARSER_BAD_HEADER:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2239)
* error code, ER_FPARSER_EOF_IN_COMMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2245)
* error code, ER_FPARSER_EOF_IN_UNKNOWN_PARAMETER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2257)
* error code, ER_FPARSER_ERROR_IN_PARAMETER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2251)
* error code, ER_FPARSER_TOO_BIG_FILE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2233)
* error code, ER_FRM_UNKNOWN_TYPE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2271)
* error code, ER_FSEEK_FAIL:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2455)
* error code, ER_FT_MATCHING_KEY_NOT_FOUND: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1262)
* error code, ER_FUNCTION_NOT_DEFINED:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  857)
* error code, ER_FUNC_INEXISTENT_NAME_COLLISION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4121)
* error code, ER_GET_ERRMSG:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1971)
* error code, ER_GET_ERRNO:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  240)
* error code, ER_GET_TEMPORARY_ERRMSG:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1976)
* error code, ER_GLOBAL_VARIABLE:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1546)
* error code, ER_GOT_SIGNAL:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  548)
* error code, ER_GRANT_PLUGIN_USER_EXISTS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4669)
* error code, ER_GRANT_WRONG_HOST_OR_USER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  965)
* error code, ER_HANDSHAKE_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  318)
* error code, ER_HASHCHK:                server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   32)
* error code, ER_HOSTNAME:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3047)
* error code, ER_HOST_IS_BLOCKED:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  863)
* error code, ER_HOST_NOT_PRIVILEGED:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  870)
* error code, ER_ILLEGAL_GRANT_FOR_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  958)
* error code, ER_ILLEGAL_HA:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  248)
* error code, ER_ILLEGAL_HA_CREATE_OPTION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3105)
* error code, ER_ILLEGAL_REFERENCE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1654)
* error code, ER_ILLEGAL_VALUE_FOR_TYPE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2402)
* error code, ER_INCONSISTENT_PARTITION_INFO_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3202)
* error code, ER_INCONSISTENT_TYPE_OF_FUNCTIONS_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3228)
* error code, ER_INCORRECT_GLOBAL_LOCAL_VAR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1602)
* error code, ER_INDEX_COLUMN_TOO_LONG:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4752)
* error code, ER_INDEX_CORRUPT:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4777)
* error code, ER_INDEX_REBUILD:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1240)
* error code, ER_INSERT_INFO:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  632)
* error code, ER_INSIDE_TRANSACTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_DIRECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4534)
* error code, ER_INSIDE_TRANSACTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_FORMAT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4483)
* error code, ER_INSIDE_TRANSACTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_SQL_LOG_BIN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4616)
* error code, ER_INVALID_CHARACTER_STRING: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1994)
* error code, ER_INVALID_DEFAULT:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  481)
* error code, ER_INVALID_GROUP_FUNC_USE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  749)
* error code, ER_INVALID_ON_UPDATE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1958)
* error code, ER_INVALID_USE_OF_NULL:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  921)
* error code, ER_IO_ERR_LOG_INDEX_READ:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2443)
* error code, ER_IPSOCK_ERROR:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  564)
* error code, ER_KEY_COLUMN_DOES_NOT_EXITS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  509)
* error code, ER_KEY_DOES_NOT_EXITS:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1171)
* error code, ER_KEY_NOT_FOUND:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  253)
* error code, ER_KEY_PART_0:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2542)
* error code, ER_KEY_REF_DO_NOT_MATCH_TABLE_REF: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1613)
* error code, ER_KILL_DENIED_ERROR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  654)
* error code, ER_LIMITED_PART_RANGE:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3414)
* error code, ER_LIST_OF_FIELDS_ONLY_IN_HASH_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3196)
* error code, ER_LOAD_DATA_INVALID_COLUMN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4005)
* error code, ER_LOAD_FROM_FIXED_SIZE_ROWS_TO_VAR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2644)
* error code, ER_LOAD_INFO:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  602)
* error code, ER_LOCAL_VARIABLE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1539)
* error code, ER_LOCK_ABORTED:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4573)
* error code, ER_LOCK_DEADLOCK:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1421)
* error code, ER_LOCK_OR_ACTIVE_TRANSACTION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1268)
* error code, ER_LOCK_TABLE_FULL:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1367)
* error code, ER_LOCK_WAIT_TIMEOUT:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1353)
* error code, ER_LOGGING_PROHIBIT_CHANGING_OF: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2519)
* error code, ER_LOG_IN_USE:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2466)
* error code, ER_LOG_PURGE_NO_FILE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4011)
* error code, ER_LOG_PURGE_UNKNOWN_ERR:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2471)
* error code, ER_MALFORMED_DEFINER:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2892)
* error code, ER_MASTER:                 server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1245)
* error code, ER_MASTER_FATAL_ERROR_READING_BINLOG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1588)
* error code, ER_MASTER_INFO:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1329)
* error code, ER_MASTER_NET_READ:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1250)
* error code, ER_MASTER_NET_WRITE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1256)
* error code, ER_MAXVALUE_IN_VALUES_IN:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4277)
* error code, ER_MAX_PREPARED_STMT_COUNT_REACHED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2999)
* error code, ER_MESSAGE_AND_STATEMENT:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4458)
* error code, ER_MISSING_SKIP_SLAVE:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1853)
* error code, ER_MIXING_NOT_ALLOWED:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1513)
* error code, ER_MIX_HANDLER_ERROR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3246)
* error code, ER_MIX_OF_GROUP_FUNC_AND_FIELDS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  932)
* error code, ER_MULTIPLE_DEF_CONST_IN_LIST_PART_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3234)
* error code, ER_MULTIPLE_PRI_KEY:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  487)
* error code, ER_MULTI_UPDATE_KEY_CONFLICT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4726)
* error code, ER_M_BIGGER_THAN_D:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2766)
* error code, ER_NAME_BECOMES_EMPTY:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3078)
* error code, ER_NATIVE_FCT_NAME_COLLISION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3827)
* error code, ER_NDB_CANT_SWITCH_BINLOG_FORMAT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3672)
* error code, ER_NDB_REPLICATION_SCHEMA_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4091)
* error code, ER_NEED_REPREPARE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4029)
* error code, ER_NET_ERROR_ON_WRITE:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1057)
* error code, ER_NET_FCNTL_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1027)
* error code, ER_NET_PACKETS_OUT_OF_ORDER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1033)
* error code, ER_NET_PACKET_TOO_LARGE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1015)
* error code, ER_NET_READ_ERROR:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1045)
* error code, ER_NET_READ_ERROR_FROM_PIPE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1021)
* error code, ER_NET_READ_INTERRUPTED:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1051)
* error code, ER_NET_UNCOMPRESS_ERROR:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1039)
* error code, ER_NET_WRITE_INTERRUPTED:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1063)
* error code, ER_NEVER_USED:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3981)
* error code, ER_NEW_ABORTING_CONNECTION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1220)
* error code, ER_NISAMCHK:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   39)
* error code, ER_NO:                     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   46)
* error code, ER_NONEXISTING_GRANT:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  939)
* error code, ER_NONEXISTING_PROC_GRANT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2608)
* error code, ER_NONEXISTING_TABLE_GRANT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  976)
* error code, ER_NONUNIQ_TABLE:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  476)
* error code, ER_NONUPDATEABLE_COLUMN:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2285)
* error code, ER_NON_GROUPING_FIELD_USED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3012)
* error code, ER_NON_INSERTABLE_TABLE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3059)
* error code, ER_NON_UNIQ_ERROR:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  370)
* error code, ER_NON_UPDATABLE_TABLE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1918)
* error code, ER_NORMAL_SHUTDOWN:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  542)
* error code, ER_NOT_ALLOWED_COMMAND:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  983)
* error code, ER_NOT_FORM_FILE:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  258)
* error code, ER_NOT_KEYFILE:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  263)
* error code, ER_NOT_SUPPORTED_AUTH_MODE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1678)
* error code, ER_NOT_SUPPORTED_YET:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1582)
* error code, ER_NO_BINARY_LOGGING:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2483)
* error code, ER_NO_BINLOG_ERROR:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3381)
* error code, ER_NO_CONST_EXPR_IN_RANGE_OR_LIST_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3183)
* error code, ER_NO_DB_ERROR:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  336)
* error code, ER_NO_DEFAULT:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1553)
* error code, ER_NO_DEFAULT_FOR_FIELD:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2384)
* error code, ER_NO_DEFAULT_FOR_VIEW_FIELD: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2740)
* error code, ER_NO_FILE_MAPPING:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2526)
* error code, ER_NO_FORMAT_DESCRIPTION_EVENT_BEFORE_BINLOG_STATEMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3991)
* error code, ER_NO_GROUP_FOR_PROC:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2507)
* error code, ER_NO_PARTITION_FOR_GIVEN_VALUE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3431)
* error code, ER_NO_PARTITION_FOR_GIVEN_VALUE_SILENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3867)
* error code, ER_NO_PARTS_ERROR:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3292)
* error code, ER_NO_PERMISSION_TO_CREATE_USER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1408)
* error code, ER_NO_RAID_COMPILED:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1158)
* error code, ER_NO_REFERENCED_ROW:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1454)
* error code, ER_NO_REFERENCED_ROW_2:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2935)
* error code, ER_NO_SUCH_INDEX:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  569)
* error code, ER_NO_SUCH_TABLE:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  971)
* error code, ER_NO_SUCH_THREAD:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  648)
* error code, ER_NO_SUCH_USER:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2913)
* error code, ER_NO_TABLES_USED:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  660)
* error code, ER_NO_TRIGGERS_ON_SYSTEM_SCHEMA: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3024)
* error code, ER_NO_UNIQUE_LOGFILE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  671)
* error code, ER_NULL_COLUMN_IN_INDEX:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  817)
* error code, ER_NULL_IN_VALUES_LESS_THAN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3702)
* error code, ER_OLD_FILE_FORMAT:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2960)
* error code, ER_OLD_KEYFILE:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  268)
* error code, ER_ONLY_INTEGERS_ALLOWED:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3782)
* error code, ER_ONLY_ON_RANGE_LIST_PARTITION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3344)
* error code, ER_OPEN_AS_READONLY:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  273)
* error code, ER_OPERAND_COLUMNS:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1619)
* error code, ER_OPTION_PREVENTS_STATEMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1931)
* error code, ER_ORDER_WITH_PROC:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2513)
* error code, ER_OUTOFMEMORY:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  279)
* error code, ER_OUT_OF_RESOURCES:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  304)
* error code, ER_OUT_OF_SORTMEMORY:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  285)
* error code, ER_PARSE_ERROR:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  466)
* error code, ER_PARTITIONS_MUST_BE_DEFINED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3215)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_COLUMN_LIST_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4259)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_CONST_DOMAIN_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3685)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_ENTRY_ERROR:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3240)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_FIELDS_TOO_LONG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4304)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_FUNCTION_FAILURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3401)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_FUNCTION_IS_NOT_ALLOWED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3691)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_FUNC_NOT_ALLOWED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3209)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_MAXVALUE_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3126)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_MERGE_ERROR:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3741)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_MGMT_ON_NONPARTITIONED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3298)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_NAME:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4138)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_NOT_DEFINED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3253)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_NO_TEMPORARY: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3679)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_REQUIRES_VALUES_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3112)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_SUBPARTITION_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3132)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_SUBPART_MIX_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3138)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_WRONG_NO_PART_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3145)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_WRONG_NO_SUBPART_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3152)
* error code, ER_PARTITION_WRONG_VALUES_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3119)
* error code, ER_PART_STATE_ERROR:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3408)
* error code, ER_PASSWD_LENGTH:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2432)
* error code, ER_PASSWORD_ANONYMOUS_USER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  876)
* error code, ER_PASSWORD_NOT_ALLOWED:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  883)
* error code, ER_PASSWORD_NO_MATCH:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  890)
* error code, ER_PATH_LENGTH:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4493)
* error code, ER_PLUGIN_IS_NOT_LOADED:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3420)
* error code, ER_PLUGIN_IS_PERMANENT:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4687)
* error code, ER_PLUGIN_NO_INSTALL:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4866)
* error code, ER_PLUGIN_NO_UNINSTALL:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4857)
* error code, ER_PRIMARY_CANT_HAVE_NULL: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1125)
* error code, ER_PROCACCESS_DENIED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2420)
* error code, ER_PROC_AUTO_GRANT_FAIL:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2615)
* error code, ER_PROC_AUTO_REVOKE_FAIL:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2621)
* error code, ER_PS_MANY_PARAM:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2537)
* error code, ER_PS_NO_RECURSION:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2877)
* error code, ER_QUERY_CACHE_DISABLED:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4246)
* error code, ER_QUERY_INTERRUPTED:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2099)
* error code, ER_QUERY_ON_FOREIGN_DATA_SOURCE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2786)
* error code, ER_QUERY_ON_MASTER:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1482)
* error code, ER_RANGE_NOT_INCREASING_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3221)
* error code, ER_RBR_NOT_AVAILABLE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3753)
* error code, ER_READY:                  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  536)
* error code, ER_READ_ONLY_TRANSACTION:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1381)
* error code, ER_RECORD_FILE_FULL:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  768)
* error code, ER_REGEXP_ERROR:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  927)
* error code, ER_RELAY_LOG_FAIL:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2426)
* error code, ER_RELAY_LOG_INIT:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2477)
* error code, ER_REMOVED_SPACES:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3030)
* error code, ER_RENAMED_NAME:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4156)
* error code, ER_REORG_HASH_ONLY_ON_SAME_NO: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3330)
* error code, ER_REORG_NO_PARAM_ERROR:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3337)
* error code, ER_REORG_OUTSIDE_RANGE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3394)
* error code, ER_REORG_PARTITION_NOT_EXIST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3369)
* error code, ER_REQUIRES_PRIMARY_KEY:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1137)
* error code, ER_RESERVED_SYNTAX:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2489)
* error code, ER_RESIGNAL_WITHOUT_ACTIVE_HANDLER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4208)
* error code, ER_REVOKE_GRANTS:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1791)
* error code, ER_ROW_IS_REFERENCED:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1465)
* error code, ER_ROW_IS_REFERENCED_2:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2924)
* error code, ER_ROW_SINGLE_PARTITION_FIELD_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4290)
* error code, ER_SAME_NAME_PARTITION:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3375)
* error code, ER_SAME_NAME_PARTITION_FIELD: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4253)
* error code, ER_SELECT_REDUCED:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1666)
* error code, ER_SERVER_IS_IN_SECURE_AUTH_MODE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1831)
* error code, ER_SERVER_SHUTDOWN:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  400)
* error code, ER_SET_CONSTANTS_ONLY:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1347)
* error code, ER_SET_PASSWORD_AUTH_PLUGIN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4660)
* error code, ER_SHUTDOWN_COMPLETE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  553)
* error code, ER_SIGNAL_BAD_CONDITION_TYPE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4214)
* error code, ER_SIGNAL_EXCEPTION:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4202)
* error code, ER_SIGNAL_NOT_FOUND:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4196)
* error code, ER_SIGNAL_WARN:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4191)
* error code, ER_SIZE_OVERFLOW_ERROR:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3468)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_AMBIGOUS_EXEC_MODE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3970)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_CANT_CREATE_CONVERSION: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4475)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_CONVERSION_FAILED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4466)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_CORRUPT_EVENT:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3999)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_CREATE_EVENT_FAILURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3898)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_FATAL_ERROR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3880)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_FAILURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4078)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4084)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE_MAX: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4706)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE_MIN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4696)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_IGNORED_SSL_PARAMS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1823)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_IGNORED_TABLE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1595)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_IGNORE_SERVER_IDS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4239)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_INCIDENT:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3861)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_MASTER_COM_FAILURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3904)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_MUST_STOP:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1309)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_NOT_RUNNING:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1316)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_RELAY_LOG_READ_FAILURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3886)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_RELAY_LOG_WRITE_FAILURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3892)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_THREAD:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1335)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_WAS_NOT_RUNNING:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1703)
* error code, ER_SLAVE_WAS_RUNNING:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1697)
* error code, ER_SPATIAL_CANT_HAVE_NULL: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1685)
* error code, ER_SPATIAL_MUST_HAVE_GEOM_COL: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4557)
* error code, ER_SPECIFIC_ACCESS_DENIED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1532)
* error code, ER_SP_ALREADY_EXISTS:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2019)
* error code, ER_SP_BADRETURN:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2072)
* error code, ER_SP_BADSELECT:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2066)
* error code, ER_SP_BADSTATEMENT:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2077)
* error code, ER_SP_BAD_CURSOR_QUERY:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2129)
* error code, ER_SP_BAD_CURSOR_SELECT:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2135)
* error code, ER_SP_BAD_SQLSTATE:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2632)
* error code, ER_SP_BAD_VAR_SHADOW:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2946)
* error code, ER_SP_CANT_ALTER:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2197)
* error code, ER_SP_CANT_SET_AUTOCOMMIT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2885)
* error code, ER_SP_CASE_NOT_FOUND:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2227)
* error code, ER_SP_COND_MISMATCH:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2112)
* error code, ER_SP_CURSOR_AFTER_HANDLER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2221)
* error code, ER_SP_CURSOR_ALREADY_OPEN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2147)
* error code, ER_SP_CURSOR_MISMATCH:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2141)
* error code, ER_SP_CURSOR_NOT_OPEN:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2153)
* error code, ER_SP_DOES_NOT_EXIST:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2025)
* error code, ER_SP_DROP_FAILED:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2031)
* error code, ER_SP_DUP_COND:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2187)
* error code, ER_SP_DUP_CURS:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2192)
* error code, ER_SP_DUP_HANDLER:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2669)
* error code, ER_SP_DUP_PARAM:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2177)
* error code, ER_SP_DUP_VAR:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2182)
* error code, ER_SP_FETCH_NO_DATA:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2171)
* error code, ER_SP_GOTO_IN_HNDLR:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2348)
* error code, ER_SP_LABEL_MISMATCH:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2055)
* error code, ER_SP_LABEL_REDEFINE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2049)
* error code, ER_SP_LILABEL_MISMATCH:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2043)
* error code, ER_SP_NORETURN:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2118)
* error code, ER_SP_NORETURNEND:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2123)
* error code, ER_SP_NOT_VAR_ARG:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2675)
* error code, ER_SP_NO_AGGREGATE:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2993)
* error code, ER_SP_NO_DROP_SP:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2342)
* error code, ER_SP_NO_RECURSION:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2747)
* error code, ER_SP_NO_RECURSIVE_CREATE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2013)
* error code, ER_SP_NO_RETSET:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2682)
* error code, ER_SP_PROC_TABLE_CORRUPT:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2974)
* error code, ER_SP_RECURSION_LIMIT:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2967)
* error code, ER_SP_STORE_FAILED:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2037)
* error code, ER_SP_SUBSELECT_NYI:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2202)
* error code, ER_SP_UNDECLARED_VAR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2159)
* error code, ER_SP_UNINIT_VAR:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2061)
* error code, ER_SP_VARCOND_AFTER_CURSHNDLR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2214)
* error code, ER_SP_WRONG_NAME:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2981)
* error code, ER_SP_WRONG_NO_OF_ARGS:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2105)
* error code, ER_SP_WRONG_NO_OF_FETCH_ARGS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2165)
* error code, ER_SR_INVALID_CREATION_CTX: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3928)
* error code, ER_STACK_OVERRUN:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  804)
* error code, ER_STACK_OVERRUN_NEED_MORE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2826)
* error code, ER_STARTUP:                server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2638)
* error code, ER_STMT_CACHE_FULL:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4716)
* error code, ER_STMT_HAS_NO_OPEN_CURSOR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2727)
* error code, ER_STMT_NOT_ALLOWED_IN_SF_OR_TRG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2208)
* error code, ER_STORED_FUNCTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_DIRECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4546)
* error code, ER_STORED_FUNCTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_FORMAT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3664)
* error code, ER_STORED_FUNCTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_SQL_LOG_BIN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4626)
* error code, ER_SUBPARTITION_ERROR:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3266)
* error code, ER_SUBPARTITION_NAME:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4144)
* error code, ER_SUBQUERY_NO_1_ROW:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1625)
* error code, ER_SYNTAX_ERROR:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  989)
* error code, ER_TABLEACCESS_DENIED_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  945)
* error code, ER_TABLENAME_NOT_ALLOWED_HERE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1672)
* error code, ER_TABLESPACE_AUTO_EXTEND_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3455)
* error code, ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_AUTO_INCREMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1081)
* error code, ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_BLOB: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1075)
* error code, ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_FT:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1442)
* error code, ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_SPKEYS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3018)
* error code, ER_TABLE_DEF_CHANGED:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2663)
* error code, ER_TABLE_EXISTS_ERROR:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  358)
* error code, ER_TABLE_IN_FK_CHECK:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4908)
* error code, ER_TABLE_MUST_HAVE_COLUMNS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  762)
* error code, ER_TABLE_NAME:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4133)
* error code, ER_TABLE_NEEDS_REBUILD:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4735)
* error code, ER_TABLE_NEEDS_UPGRADE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2986)
* error code, ER_TABLE_NOT_LOCKED:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  684)
* error code, ER_TABLE_NOT_LOCKED_FOR_WRITE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  677)
* error code, ER_TEMPORARY_NAME:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4150)
* error code, ER_TEMP_TABLE_PREVENTS_SWITCH_OUT_OF_RBR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3657)
* error code, ER_TEXTFILE_NOT_READABLE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  589)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_DISPLAYWIDTH:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2845)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_FIELDLENGTH:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  522)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_FOR_UNCOMPRESS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1709)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_PRECISION:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2759)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_ROWSIZE:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  796)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_SCALE:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2753)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_SELECT:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  707)
* error code, ER_TOO_BIG_SET:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  666)
* error code, ER_TOO_HIGH_LEVEL_OF_NESTING_FOR_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3072)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_BODY:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2834)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_FIELD_COMMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4115)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_IDENT:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  436)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_INDEX_COMMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4565)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_KEY:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  504)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_STRING:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1069)
* error code, ER_TOO_LONG_TABLE_COMMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4109)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_CONCURRENT_TRXS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4161)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_DELAYED_THREADS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1003)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_FIELDS:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  790)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_KEYS:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  493)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_KEY_PARTS:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  498)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_PARTITIONS_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3260)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_PARTITION_FUNC_FIELDS_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4271)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_ROWS:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1132)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_TABLES:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  784)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_USER_CONNECTIONS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1340)
* error code, ER_TOO_MANY_VALUES_ERROR:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4283)
* error code, ER_TOO_MUCH_AUTO_TIMESTAMP_COLS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1950)
* error code, ER_TRANS_CACHE_FULL:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1301)
* error code, ER_TRG_ALREADY_EXISTS:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2354)
* error code, ER_TRG_CANT_CHANGE_ROW:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2372)
* error code, ER_TRG_CANT_OPEN_TABLE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3958)
* error code, ER_TRG_CORRUPTED_FILE:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3934)
* error code, ER_TRG_DOES_NOT_EXIST:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2360)
* error code, ER_TRG_INVALID_CREATION_CTX: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3946)
* error code, ER_TRG_IN_WRONG_SCHEMA:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2820)
* error code, ER_TRG_NO_CREATION_CTX:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3940)
* error code, ER_TRG_NO_DEFINER:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2952)
* error code, ER_TRG_NO_SUCH_ROW_IN_TRG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2378)
* error code, ER_TRG_ON_VIEW_OR_TEMP_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2366)
* error code, ER_TRUNCATED_WRONG_VALUE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1944)
* error code, ER_TRUNCATED_WRONG_VALUE_FOR_FIELD: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2396)
* error code, ER_TRUNCATE_ILLEGAL_FK:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4678)
* error code, ER_UDF_EXISTS:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  840)
* error code, ER_UDF_NO_PATHS:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  835)
* error code, ER_UNDO_RECORD_TOO_BIG:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4784)
* error code, ER_UNEXPECTED_EOF:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  292)
* error code, ER_UNION_TABLES_IN_DIFFERENT_DIR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1414)
* error code, ER_UNIQUE_KEY_NEED_ALL_FIELDS_IN_PF: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3285)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_CHARACTER_SET:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  778)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_COLLATION:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1817)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_COM_ERROR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  341)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_ERROR:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  715)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_KEY_CACHE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1892)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_LOCALE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4233)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_PROCEDURE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  720)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_STMT_HANDLER:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1631)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_STORAGE_ENGINE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1905)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_SYSTEM_VARIABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1275)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_TABLE:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  738)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_TARGET_BINLOG:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2437)
* error code, ER_UNKNOWN_TIME_ZONE:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1982)
* error code, ER_UNSUPORTED_LOG_ENGINE:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3788)
* error code, ER_UNSUPPORTED_ENGINE:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4916)
* error code, ER_UNSUPPORTED_EXTENSION:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  755)
* error code, ER_UNSUPPORTED_PS:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1964)
* error code, ER_UNTIL_COND_IGNORED:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1861)
* error code, ER_UPDATE_INFO:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  896)
* error code, ER_UPDATE_LOG_DEPRECATED_IGNORED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2083)
* error code, ER_UPDATE_LOG_DEPRECATED_TRANSLATED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2091)
* error code, ER_UPDATE_TABLE_USED:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  637)
* error code, ER_UPDATE_WITHOUT_KEY_IN_SAFE_MODE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1164)
* error code, ER_USERNAME:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3042)
* error code, ER_USER_LIMIT_REACHED:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1525)
* error code, ER_VALUES_IS_NOT_INT_TYPE_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4644)
* error code, ER_VARIABLE_IS_NOT_STRUCT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1810)
* error code, ER_VARIABLE_IS_READONLY:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4064)
* error code, ER_VAR_CANT_BE_READ:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1570)
* error code, ER_VIEW_CHECKSUM:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2547)
* error code, ER_VIEW_CHECK_FAILED:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2414)
* error code, ER_VIEW_DELETE_MERGE_VIEW: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2565)
* error code, ER_VIEW_FRM_NO_USER:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2898)
* error code, ER_VIEW_INVALID:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2336)
* error code, ER_VIEW_INVALID_CREATION_CTX: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3922)
* error code, ER_VIEW_MULTIUPDATE:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2552)
* error code, ER_VIEW_NONUPD_CHECK:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2408)
* error code, ER_VIEW_NO_CREATION_CTX:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3916)
* error code, ER_VIEW_NO_EXPLAIN:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2264)
* error code, ER_VIEW_NO_INSERT_FIELD_LIST: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2559)
* error code, ER_VIEW_OTHER_USER:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2906)
* error code, ER_VIEW_PREVENT_UPDATE:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2870)
* error code, ER_VIEW_RECURSIVE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3006)
* error code, ER_VIEW_SELECT_CLAUSE:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2297)
* error code, ER_VIEW_SELECT_DERIVED:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2291)
* error code, ER_VIEW_SELECT_TMPTABLE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2309)
* error code, ER_VIEW_SELECT_VARIABLE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2303)
* error code, ER_VIEW_WRONG_LIST:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2315)
* error code, ER_WARNING_NOT_COMPLETE_ROLLBACK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1294)
* error code, ER_WARN_ALLOWED_PACKET_OVERFLOWED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2000)
* error code, ER_WARN_CANT_DROP_DEFAULT_KEYCACHE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2839)
* error code, ER_WARN_DATA_OUT_OF_RANGE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1761)
* error code, ER_WARN_DEPRECATED_SYNTAX: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1911)
* error code, ER_WARN_DEPRECATED_SYNTAX_NO_REPLACEMENT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4500)
* error code, ER_WARN_DEPRECATED_SYNTAX_WITH_VER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3622)
* error code, ER_WARN_ENGINE_TRANSACTION_ROLLBACK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4071)
* error code, ER_WARN_FIELD_RESOLVED:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1839)
* error code, ER_WARN_HOSTNAME_WONT_WORK: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1898)
* error code, ER_WARN_INVALID_TIMESTAMP: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1988)
* error code, ER_WARN_I_S_SKIPPED_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4525)
* error code, ER_WARN_NULL_TO_NOTNULL:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1754)
* error code, ER_WARN_QC_RESIZE:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1880)
* error code, ER_WARN_TOO_FEW_RECORDS:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1741)
* error code, ER_WARN_TOO_MANY_RECORDS:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1747)
* error code, ER_WARN_USING_OTHER_HANDLER: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1773)
* error code, ER_WARN_VIEW_MERGE:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2322)
* error code, ER_WARN_VIEW_WITHOUT_KEY:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2329)
* error code, ER_WRONG_ARGUMENTS:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1402)
* error code, ER_WRONG_AUTO_KEY:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  529)
* error code, ER_WRONG_COLUMN_NAME:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1094)
* error code, ER_WRONG_DB_NAME:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  696)
* error code, ER_WRONG_EXPR_IN_PARTITION_FUNC_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3171)
* error code, ER_WRONG_FIELD_SPEC:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  460)
* error code, ER_WRONG_FIELD_TERMINATORS: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  575)
* error code, ER_WRONG_FIELD_WITH_GROUP: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  412)
* error code, ER_WRONG_FK_DEF:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1608)
* error code, ER_WRONG_GROUP_FIELD:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  418)
* error code, ER_WRONG_KEY_COLUMN:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1100)
* error code, ER_WRONG_LOCK_OF_SYSTEM_TABLE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2773)
* error code, ER_WRONG_MAGIC:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2532)
* error code, ER_WRONG_MRG_TABLE:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1106)
* error code, ER_WRONG_NAME_FOR_CATALOG: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1874)
* error code, ER_WRONG_NAME_FOR_INDEX:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1868)
* error code, ER_WRONG_NATIVE_TABLE_STRUCTURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4509)
* error code, ER_WRONG_NUMBER_OF_COLUMNS_IN_SELECT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1499)
* error code, ER_WRONG_OBJECT:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2277)
* error code, ER_WRONG_OUTER_JOIN:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  810)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PARAMCOUNT_TO_NATIVE_FCT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3808)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PARAMCOUNT_TO_PROCEDURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  726)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PARAMETERS_TO_NATIVE_FCT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3815)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PARAMETERS_TO_PROCEDURE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  732)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PARAMETERS_TO_STORED_FCT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3821)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PARTITION_NAME:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3708)
* error code, ER_WRONG_PERFSCHEMA_USAGE: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4517)
* error code, ER_WRONG_SIZE_NUMBER:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3461)
* error code, ER_WRONG_SPVAR_TYPE_IN_LIMIT: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4588)
* error code, ER_WRONG_STRING_LENGTH:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3052)
* error code, ER_WRONG_SUB_KEY:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  612)
* error code, ER_WRONG_SUM_SELECT:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  424)
* error code, ER_WRONG_TABLE_NAME:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  701)
* error code, ER_WRONG_TYPE_COLUMN_VALUE_ERROR: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4265)
* error code, ER_WRONG_TYPE_FOR_VAR:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1564)
* error code, ER_WRONG_USAGE:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1494)
* error code, ER_WRONG_VALUE:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3426)
* error code, ER_WRONG_VALUE_COUNT:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  430)
* error code, ER_WRONG_VALUE_COUNT_ON_ROW: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  909)
* error code, ER_WRONG_VALUE_FOR_TYPE:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2657)
* error code, ER_WRONG_VALUE_FOR_VAR:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1558)
* error code, ER_WSAS_FAILED:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2496)
* error code, ER_XAER_DUPID:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2851)
* error code, ER_XAER_INVAL:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2581)
* error code, ER_XAER_NOTA:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2576)
* error code, ER_XAER_OUTSIDE:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2592)
* error code, ER_XAER_RMERR:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2597)
* error code, ER_XAER_RMFAIL:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2586)
* error code, ER_XA_RBDEADLOCK:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4023)
* error code, ER_XA_RBROLLBACK:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2603)
* error code, ER_XA_RBTIMEOUT:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4017)
* error code, ER_YES:                    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   53)
* error code, ER_ZLIB_Z_BUF_ERROR:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1722)
* error code, ER_ZLIB_Z_DATA_ERROR:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1729)
* error code, ER_ZLIB_Z_MEM_ERROR:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1716)
* error code, WARN_COND_ITEM_TRUNCATED:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4221)
* error code, WARN_DATA_TRUNCATED:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1767)
* error code, WARN_NON_ASCII_SEPARATOR_NOT_IMPLEMENTED: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4167)
* error code, WARN_NO_MASTER_INFO:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4041)
* error code, WARN_OPTION_BELOW_LIMIT:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4744)
* error code, WARN_OPTION_IGNORED:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4047)
* error code, WARN_PLUGIN_BUSY:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4059)
* error code, WARN_PLUGIN_DELETE_BUILTIN: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4053)
* ERROR Events (NDB Cluster):            mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line  309)
* error log:                             glossary.           (line 1013)
* error logs (NDB Cluster):              mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  477)
* error messages, can't find file:       file-permissions.   (line    6)
* error messages, Can't reopen table:    temporary-table-problems.
                                                             (line   27)
* error messages, displaying:            perror.             (line    6)
* error messages, languages:             error-message-language.
                                                             (line    6)
* error messages, languages <1>:         error-message-language.
                                                             (line    6)
* error messages, The used command is not allowed with this MySQL version: load-data-local.
                                                             (line  107)
* Error, thread command:                 thread-commands.    (line   60)
* error-insert option, ndb_move_data:    mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line  134)
* errors, access denied:                 error-access-denied.
                                                             (line    6)
* errors, and replication:               replication-features-slaveerrors.
                                                             (line    6)
* errors, checking tables for:           myisam-check.       (line    6)
* errors, common:                        problems.           (line   16)
* errors, directory checksum:            solaris-installation.
                                                             (line   10)
* errors, handling for UDFs:             adding-udf.         (line  508)
* errors, in subqueries:                 subquery-errors.    (line    6)
* errors, known:                         known-issues.       (line    6)
* errors, linking:                       c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line  155)
* errors, list of:                       common-errors.      (line   28)
* errors, lost connection:               error-lost-connection.
                                                             (line    6)
* errors, reporting:                     bug-reports.        (line    6)
* errors, reporting <1>:                 bug-reports.        (line    6)
* errors, sources of information:        error-interfaces.   (line    6)
* error_count system variable:           server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1253)
* ERROR_FOR_DIVISION_BY_ZERO SQL mode:   sql-mode.           (line  156)
* ER_ABORTING_CONNECTION error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1008)
* ER_ACCESS_DENIED_ERROR error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  329)
* ER_ACCESS_DENIED_NO_PASSWORD_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4651)
* ER_ADD_PARTITION_NO_NEW_PARTITION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3356)
* ER_ADD_PARTITION_SUBPART_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3349)
* ER_ADMIN_WRONG_MRG_TABLE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3064)
* ER_ALTER_FILEGROUP_FAILED error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3474)
* ER_ALTER_INFO error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  606)
* ER_AMBIGUOUS_FIELD_TERM error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3083)
* ER_AUTOINC_READ_FAILED error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3035)
* ER_AUTO_CONVERT error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1648)
* ER_BAD_DB_ERROR error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  352)
* ER_BAD_FIELD_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  405)
* ER_BAD_FT_COLUMN error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1886)
* ER_BAD_HOST_ERROR error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  311)
* ER_BAD_LOG_STATEMENT error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3793)
* ER_BAD_NULL_ERROR error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  346)
* ER_BAD_SLAVE error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1322)
* ER_BAD_SLAVE_UNTIL_COND error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1845)
* ER_BAD_TABLE_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  363)
* ER_BASE64_DECODE_ERROR error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3758)
* ER_BINLOG_CREATE_ROUTINE_NEED_SUPER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2711)
* ER_BINLOG_LOGGING_IMPOSSIBLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3909)
* ER_BINLOG_MULTIPLE_ENGINES_AND_SELF_LOGGING_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4368)
* ER_BINLOG_PURGE_EMFILE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3840)
* ER_BINLOG_PURGE_FATAL_ERR error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2459)
* ER_BINLOG_PURGE_PROHIBITED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2448)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_ENGINE_AND_STMT_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4309)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_INJECTION_AND_STMT_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4339)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_INJECTION_AND_STMT_MODE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4359)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_LOGGING_FAILED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3480)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_MODE_AND_STMT_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4319)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_RBR_TO_SBR error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3492)
* ER_BINLOG_ROW_WRONG_TABLE_DEF error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3486)
* ER_BINLOG_STMT_MODE_AND_ROW_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4349)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_AND_STMT_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4329)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_AUTOINC_COLUMNS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4410)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_AUTOINC_NOT_FIRST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4924)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_CREATE_IGNORE_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4824)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_CREATE_REPLACE_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4835)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_CREATE_SELECT_AUTOINC error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4886)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_DELAYED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4390)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_IGNORE_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4791)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_SELECT_UPDATE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4802)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_INSERT_TWO_KEYS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4898)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_LIMIT error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4380)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_MIXED_STATEMENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4606)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_MULTIPLE_ENGINES_AND_SELF_LOGGING_ENGINE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4595)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_NONTRANS_AFTER_TRANS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4447)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_REPLACE_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4813)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_ROUTINE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2702)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_STATEMENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3872)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_SYSTEM_FUNCTION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4438)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_SYSTEM_TABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4400)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_SYSTEM_VARIABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4429)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_UDF error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4420)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_UPDATE_IGNORE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4846)
* ER_BINLOG_UNSAFE_WRITE_AUTOINC_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4874)
* ER_BLOBS_AND_NO_TERMINATED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  581)
* ER_BLOB_CANT_HAVE_DEFAULT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  689)
* ER_BLOB_FIELD_IN_PART_FUNC_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3278)
* ER_BLOB_KEY_WITHOUT_LENGTH error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1117)
* ER_BLOB_USED_AS_KEY error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  514)
* ER_CANNOT_ADD_FOREIGN error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1447)
* ER_CANNOT_LOAD_FROM_TABLE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3568)
* ER_CANNOT_USER error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2570)
* ER_CANT_ACTIVATE_LOG error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3746)
* ER_CANT_AGGREGATE_2COLLATIONS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1778)
* ER_CANT_AGGREGATE_3COLLATIONS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1796)
* ER_CANT_AGGREGATE_NCOLLATIONS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1803)
* ER_CANT_CHANGE_TX_ISOLATION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3713)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_DB error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   88)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_FEDERATED_TABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2813)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_FILE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   63)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_GEOMETRY_OBJECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2686)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_HANDLER_FILE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3272)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_SROUTINE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3963)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_TABLE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   75)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_THREAD error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  900)
* ER_CANT_CREATE_USER_WITH_GRANT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2650)
* ER_CANT_DELETE_FILE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  125)
* ER_CANT_DO_THIS_DURING_AN_TRANSACTION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1188)
* ER_CANT_DROP_FIELD_OR_KEY error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  625)
* ER_CANT_FIND_DL_ENTRY error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  850)
* ER_CANT_FIND_SYSTEM_REC error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  131)
* ER_CANT_FIND_UDF error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  823)
* ER_CANT_GET_STAT error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  140)
* ER_CANT_GET_WD error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  145)
* ER_CANT_INITIALIZE_UDF error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  828)
* ER_CANT_LOCK error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  150)
* ER_CANT_LOCK_LOG_TABLE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3635)
* ER_CANT_OPEN_FILE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  155)
* ER_CANT_OPEN_LIBRARY error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  844)
* ER_CANT_READ_DIR error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  171)
* ER_CANT_REMOVE_ALL_FIELDS error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  618)
* ER_CANT_RENAME_LOG_TABLE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3799)
* ER_CANT_REOPEN_TABLE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  914)
* ER_CANT_SET_WD error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  176)
* ER_CANT_UPDATE_USED_TABLE_IN_SF_OR_TRG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2861)
* ER_CANT_UPDATE_WITH_READLOCK error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1505)
* ER_CANT_USE_OPTION_HERE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1575)
* ER_CANT_WRITE_LOCK_LOG_TABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3628)
* ER_CHECKREAD error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  181)
* ER_CHECK_NOT_IMPLEMENTED error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1182)
* ER_CHECK_NO_SUCH_TABLE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1176)
* ER_COALESCE_ONLY_ON_HASH_PARTITION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3323)
* ER_COALESCE_PARTITION_NO_PARTITION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3362)
* ER_COLLATION_CHARSET_MISMATCH error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1690)
* ER_COLUMNACCESS_DENIED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  950)
* ER_COL_COUNT_DOESNT_MATCH_CORRUPTED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3561)
* ER_COL_COUNT_DOESNT_MATCH_PLEASE_UPDATE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3648)
* ER_COMMIT_NOT_ALLOWED_IN_SF_OR_TRG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2732)
* ER_COND_ITEM_TOO_LONG error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4226)
* ER_CONFLICTING_DECLARATIONS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2006)
* ER_CONFLICT_FN_PARSE_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4096)
* ER_CONNECT_TO_FOREIGN_DATA_SOURCE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2779)
* ER_CONNECT_TO_MASTER error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1475)
* ER_CONSECUTIVE_REORG_PARTITIONS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3386)
* ER_CONST_EXPR_IN_PARTITION_FUNC_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3158)
* ER_CON_COUNT_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  297)
* ER_CORRUPT_HELP_DB error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1636)
* ER_CRASHED_ON_REPAIR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1286)
* ER_CRASHED_ON_USAGE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1280)
* ER_CREATE_DB_WITH_READ_LOCK error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1394)
* ER_CREATE_FILEGROUP_FAILED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3442)
* ER_CUT_VALUE_GROUP_CONCAT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1734)
* ER_CYCLIC_REFERENCE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1642)
* ER_DATABASE_NAME error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4127)
* ER_DATA_OUT_OF_RANGE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4579)
* ER_DATA_TOO_LONG error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2626)
* ER_DATETIME_FUNCTION_OVERFLOW error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2855)
* ER_DBACCESS_DENIED_ERROR error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  323)
* ER_DB_CREATE_EXISTS error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   94)
* ER_DB_DROP_DELETE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  114)
* ER_DB_DROP_EXISTS error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  108)
* ER_DB_DROP_RMDIR error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  120)
* ER_DDL_LOG_ERROR error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3696)
* ER_DEBUG_SYNC_HIT_LIMIT error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4178)
* ER_DEBUG_SYNC_TIMEOUT error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4172)
* ER_DELAYED_CANT_CHANGE_LOCK error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  995)
* ER_DELAYED_INSERT_TABLE_LOCKED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1086)
* ER_DELAYED_NOT_SUPPORTED error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4034)
* ER_DERIVED_MUST_HAVE_ALIAS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1659)
* ER_DIFF_GROUPS_PROC error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2500)
* ER_DISK_FULL error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  186)
* ER_DIVISION_BY_ZERO error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2389)
* ER_DROP_DB_WITH_READ_LOCK error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1387)
* ER_DROP_FILEGROUP_FAILED error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3448)
* ER_DROP_INDEX_FK error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3599)
* ER_DROP_LAST_PARTITION error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3317)
* ER_DROP_PARTITION_NON_EXISTENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3311)
* ER_DROP_USER error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1785)
* ER_DUMP_NOT_IMPLEMENTED error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1226)
* ER_DUPLICATED_VALUE_IN_TYPE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1937)
* ER_DUP_ARGUMENT error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1519)
* ER_DUP_ENTRY error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  451)
* ER_DUP_ENTRY_AUTOINCREMENT_CASE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3720)
* ER_DUP_ENTRY_WITH_KEY_NAME error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3832)
* ER_DUP_FIELDNAME error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  441)
* ER_DUP_KEY error code:                 server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  191)
* ER_DUP_KEYNAME error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  446)
* ER_DUP_SIGNAL_SET error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4184)
* ER_DUP_UNIQUE error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1112)
* ER_EMPTY_QUERY error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  470)
* ER_ERROR_DURING_CHECKPOINT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1213)
* ER_ERROR_DURING_COMMIT error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1195)
* ER_ERROR_DURING_FLUSH_LOGS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1207)
* ER_ERROR_DURING_ROLLBACK error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1201)
* ER_ERROR_IN_TRIGGER_BODY error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4760)
* ER_ERROR_IN_UNKNOWN_TRIGGER_BODY error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4768)
* ER_ERROR_ON_CLOSE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  196)
* ER_ERROR_ON_READ error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  202)
* ER_ERROR_ON_RENAME error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  207)
* ER_ERROR_ON_WRITE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  217)
* ER_ERROR_WHEN_EXECUTING_COMMAND error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1487)
* ER_EVENTS_DB_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3771)
* ER_EVENT_ALREADY_EXISTS error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3499)
* ER_EVENT_CANNOT_ALTER_IN_THE_PAST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3853)
* ER_EVENT_CANNOT_CREATE_IN_THE_PAST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3846)
* ER_EVENT_CANNOT_DELETE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3575)
* ER_EVENT_CANT_ALTER error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3518)
* ER_EVENT_COMPILE_ERROR error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3581)
* ER_EVENT_DATA_TOO_LONG error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3593)
* ER_EVENT_DOES_NOT_EXIST error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3512)
* ER_EVENT_DROP_FAILED error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3524)
* ER_EVENT_ENDS_BEFORE_STARTS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3536)
* ER_EVENT_EXEC_TIME_IN_THE_PAST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3542)
* ER_EVENT_INTERVAL_NOT_POSITIVE_OR_TOO_BIG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3530)
* ER_EVENT_INVALID_CREATION_CTX error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3951)
* ER_EVENT_MODIFY_QUEUE_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3727)
* ER_EVENT_NEITHER_M_EXPR_NOR_M_AT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3555)
* ER_EVENT_OPEN_TABLE_FAILED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3549)
* ER_EVENT_RECURSION_FORBIDDEN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3764)
* ER_EVENT_SAME_NAME error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3587)
* ER_EVENT_SET_VAR_ERROR error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3733)
* ER_EVENT_STORE_FAILED error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3505)
* ER_EXCEPTIONS_WRITE_ERROR error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4102)
* ER_EXEC_STMT_WITH_OPEN_CURSOR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2719)
* ER_FAILED_READ_FROM_PAR_FILE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4635)
* ER_FAILED_ROUTINE_BREAK_BINLOG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2693)
* ER_FEATURE_DISABLED error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1923)
* ER_FIELD_NOT_FOUND_PART_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3188)
* ER_FIELD_SPECIFIED_TWICE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  742)
* ER_FIELD_TYPE_NOT_ALLOWED_AS_PARTITION_FIELD error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4296)
* ER_FILEGROUP_OPTION_ONLY_ONCE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3436)
* ER_FILE_EXISTS_ERROR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  595)
* ER_FILE_NOT_FOUND error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  165)
* ER_FILE_USED error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  223)
* ER_FILSORT_ABORT error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  228)
* ER_FLUSH_MASTER_BINLOG_CLOSED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1233)
* ER_FORBID_SCHEMA_CHANGE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2917)
* ER_FORCING_CLOSE error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  558)
* ER_FOREIGN_DATA_SOURCE_DOESNT_EXIST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2792)
* ER_FOREIGN_DATA_STRING_INVALID error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2806)
* ER_FOREIGN_DATA_STRING_INVALID_CANT_CREATE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2799)
* ER_FOREIGN_DUPLICATE_KEY error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3641)
* ER_FOREIGN_KEY_ON_PARTITIONED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3304)
* ER_FOREIGN_SERVER_DOESNT_EXIST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3097)
* ER_FOREIGN_SERVER_EXISTS error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3090)
* ER_FORM_NOT_FOUND error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  233)
* ER_FPARSER_BAD_HEADER error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2238)
* ER_FPARSER_EOF_IN_COMMENT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2244)
* ER_FPARSER_EOF_IN_UNKNOWN_PARAMETER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2256)
* ER_FPARSER_ERROR_IN_PARAMETER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2250)
* ER_FPARSER_TOO_BIG_FILE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2232)
* ER_FRM_UNKNOWN_TYPE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2270)
* ER_FSEEK_FAIL error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2454)
* ER_FT_MATCHING_KEY_NOT_FOUND error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1261)
* ER_FUNCTION_NOT_DEFINED error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  856)
* ER_FUNC_INEXISTENT_NAME_COLLISION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4120)
* ER_GET_ERRMSG error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1970)
* ER_GET_ERRNO error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  239)
* ER_GET_TEMPORARY_ERRMSG error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1975)
* ER_GLOBAL_VARIABLE error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1545)
* ER_GOT_SIGNAL error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  547)
* ER_GRANT_PLUGIN_USER_EXISTS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4668)
* ER_GRANT_WRONG_HOST_OR_USER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  964)
* ER_HANDSHAKE_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  317)
* ER_HASHCHK error code:                 server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   31)
* ER_HOSTNAME error code:                server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3046)
* ER_HOST_IS_BLOCKED error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  862)
* ER_HOST_NOT_PRIVILEGED error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  869)
* ER_ILLEGAL_GRANT_FOR_TABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  957)
* ER_ILLEGAL_HA error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  247)
* ER_ILLEGAL_HA_CREATE_OPTION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3104)
* ER_ILLEGAL_REFERENCE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1653)
* ER_ILLEGAL_VALUE_FOR_TYPE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2401)
* ER_INCONSISTENT_PARTITION_INFO_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3201)
* ER_INCONSISTENT_TYPE_OF_FUNCTIONS_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3227)
* ER_INCORRECT_GLOBAL_LOCAL_VAR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1601)
* ER_INDEX_COLUMN_TOO_LONG error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4751)
* ER_INDEX_CORRUPT error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4776)
* ER_INDEX_REBUILD error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1239)
* ER_INSERT_INFO error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  631)
* ER_INSIDE_TRANSACTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_DIRECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4533)
* ER_INSIDE_TRANSACTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_FORMAT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4482)
* ER_INSIDE_TRANSACTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_SQL_LOG_BIN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4615)
* ER_INVALID_CHARACTER_STRING error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1993)
* ER_INVALID_DEFAULT error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  480)
* ER_INVALID_GROUP_FUNC_USE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  748)
* ER_INVALID_ON_UPDATE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1957)
* ER_INVALID_USE_OF_NULL error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  920)
* ER_IO_ERR_LOG_INDEX_READ error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2442)
* ER_IPSOCK_ERROR error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  563)
* ER_KEY_COLUMN_DOES_NOT_EXITS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  508)
* ER_KEY_DOES_NOT_EXITS error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1170)
* ER_KEY_NOT_FOUND error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  252)
* ER_KEY_PART_0 error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2541)
* ER_KEY_REF_DO_NOT_MATCH_TABLE_REF error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1612)
* ER_KILL_DENIED_ERROR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  653)
* ER_LIMITED_PART_RANGE error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3413)
* ER_LIST_OF_FIELDS_ONLY_IN_HASH_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3195)
* ER_LOAD_DATA_INVALID_COLUMN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4004)
* ER_LOAD_FROM_FIXED_SIZE_ROWS_TO_VAR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2643)
* ER_LOAD_INFO error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  601)
* ER_LOCAL_VARIABLE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1538)
* ER_LOCK_ABORTED error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4572)
* ER_LOCK_DEADLOCK error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1420)
* ER_LOCK_OR_ACTIVE_TRANSACTION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1267)
* ER_LOCK_TABLE_FULL error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1366)
* ER_LOCK_WAIT_TIMEOUT error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1352)
* ER_LOGGING_PROHIBIT_CHANGING_OF error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2518)
* ER_LOG_IN_USE error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2465)
* ER_LOG_PURGE_NO_FILE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4010)
* ER_LOG_PURGE_UNKNOWN_ERR error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2470)
* ER_MALFORMED_DEFINER error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2891)
* ER_MASTER error code:                  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1244)
* ER_MASTER_FATAL_ERROR_READING_BINLOG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1587)
* ER_MASTER_INFO error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1328)
* ER_MASTER_NET_READ error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1249)
* ER_MASTER_NET_WRITE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1255)
* ER_MAXVALUE_IN_VALUES_IN error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4276)
* ER_MAX_PREPARED_STMT_COUNT_REACHED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2998)
* ER_MESSAGE_AND_STATEMENT error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4457)
* ER_MISSING_SKIP_SLAVE error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1852)
* ER_MIXING_NOT_ALLOWED error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1512)
* ER_MIX_HANDLER_ERROR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3245)
* ER_MIX_OF_GROUP_FUNC_AND_FIELDS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  931)
* ER_MULTIPLE_DEF_CONST_IN_LIST_PART_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3233)
* ER_MULTIPLE_PRI_KEY error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  486)
* ER_MULTI_UPDATE_KEY_CONFLICT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4725)
* ER_M_BIGGER_THAN_D error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2765)
* ER_NAME_BECOMES_EMPTY error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3077)
* ER_NATIVE_FCT_NAME_COLLISION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3826)
* ER_NDB_CANT_SWITCH_BINLOG_FORMAT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3671)
* ER_NDB_REPLICATION_SCHEMA_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4090)
* ER_NEED_REPREPARE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4028)
* ER_NET_ERROR_ON_WRITE error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1056)
* ER_NET_FCNTL_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1026)
* ER_NET_PACKETS_OUT_OF_ORDER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1032)
* ER_NET_PACKET_TOO_LARGE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1014)
* ER_NET_READ_ERROR error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1044)
* ER_NET_READ_ERROR_FROM_PIPE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1020)
* ER_NET_READ_INTERRUPTED error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1050)
* ER_NET_UNCOMPRESS_ERROR error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1038)
* ER_NET_WRITE_INTERRUPTED error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1062)
* ER_NEVER_USED error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3980)
* ER_NEW_ABORTING_CONNECTION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1219)
* ER_NISAMCHK error code:                server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   38)
* ER_NO error code:                      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   45)
* ER_NONEXISTING_GRANT error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  938)
* ER_NONEXISTING_PROC_GRANT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2607)
* ER_NONEXISTING_TABLE_GRANT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  975)
* ER_NONUNIQ_TABLE error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  475)
* ER_NONUPDATEABLE_COLUMN error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2284)
* ER_NON_GROUPING_FIELD_USED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3011)
* ER_NON_INSERTABLE_TABLE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3058)
* ER_NON_UNIQ_ERROR error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  369)
* ER_NON_UPDATABLE_TABLE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1917)
* ER_NORMAL_SHUTDOWN error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  541)
* ER_NOT_ALLOWED_COMMAND error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  982)
* ER_NOT_FORM_FILE error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  257)
* ER_NOT_KEYFILE error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  262)
* ER_NOT_SUPPORTED_AUTH_MODE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1677)
* ER_NOT_SUPPORTED_YET error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1581)
* ER_NO_BINARY_LOGGING error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2482)
* ER_NO_BINLOG_ERROR error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3380)
* ER_NO_CONST_EXPR_IN_RANGE_OR_LIST_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3182)
* ER_NO_DB_ERROR error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  335)
* ER_NO_DEFAULT error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1552)
* ER_NO_DEFAULT_FOR_FIELD error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2383)
* ER_NO_DEFAULT_FOR_VIEW_FIELD error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2739)
* ER_NO_FILE_MAPPING error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2525)
* ER_NO_FORMAT_DESCRIPTION_EVENT_BEFORE_BINLOG_STATEMENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3990)
* ER_NO_GROUP_FOR_PROC error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2506)
* ER_NO_PARTITION_FOR_GIVEN_VALUE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3430)
* ER_NO_PARTITION_FOR_GIVEN_VALUE_SILENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3866)
* ER_NO_PARTS_ERROR error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3291)
* ER_NO_PERMISSION_TO_CREATE_USER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1407)
* ER_NO_RAID_COMPILED error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1157)
* ER_NO_REFERENCED_ROW error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1453)
* ER_NO_REFERENCED_ROW_2 error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2934)
* ER_NO_SUCH_INDEX error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  568)
* ER_NO_SUCH_TABLE error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  970)
* ER_NO_SUCH_THREAD error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  647)
* ER_NO_SUCH_USER error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2912)
* ER_NO_TABLES_USED error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  659)
* ER_NO_TRIGGERS_ON_SYSTEM_SCHEMA error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3023)
* ER_NO_UNIQUE_LOGFILE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  670)
* ER_NULL_COLUMN_IN_INDEX error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  816)
* ER_NULL_IN_VALUES_LESS_THAN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3701)
* ER_OLD_FILE_FORMAT error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2959)
* ER_OLD_KEYFILE error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  267)
* ER_ONLY_INTEGERS_ALLOWED error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3781)
* ER_ONLY_ON_RANGE_LIST_PARTITION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3343)
* ER_OPEN_AS_READONLY error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  272)
* ER_OPERAND_COLUMNS error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1618)
* ER_OPTION_PREVENTS_STATEMENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1930)
* ER_ORDER_WITH_PROC error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2512)
* ER_OUTOFMEMORY error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  278)
* ER_OUT_OF_RESOURCES error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  303)
* ER_OUT_OF_SORTMEMORY error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  284)
* ER_PARSE_ERROR error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  465)
* ER_PARTITIONS_MUST_BE_DEFINED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3214)
* ER_PARTITION_COLUMN_LIST_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4258)
* ER_PARTITION_CONST_DOMAIN_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3684)
* ER_PARTITION_ENTRY_ERROR error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3239)
* ER_PARTITION_FIELDS_TOO_LONG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4303)
* ER_PARTITION_FUNCTION_FAILURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3400)
* ER_PARTITION_FUNCTION_IS_NOT_ALLOWED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3690)
* ER_PARTITION_FUNC_NOT_ALLOWED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3208)
* ER_PARTITION_MAXVALUE_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3125)
* ER_PARTITION_MERGE_ERROR error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3740)
* ER_PARTITION_MGMT_ON_NONPARTITIONED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3297)
* ER_PARTITION_NAME error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4137)
* ER_PARTITION_NOT_DEFINED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3252)
* ER_PARTITION_NO_TEMPORARY error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3678)
* ER_PARTITION_REQUIRES_VALUES_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3111)
* ER_PARTITION_SUBPARTITION_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3131)
* ER_PARTITION_SUBPART_MIX_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3137)
* ER_PARTITION_WRONG_NO_PART_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3144)
* ER_PARTITION_WRONG_NO_SUBPART_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3151)
* ER_PARTITION_WRONG_VALUES_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3118)
* ER_PART_STATE_ERROR error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3407)
* ER_PASSWD_LENGTH error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2431)
* ER_PASSWORD_ANONYMOUS_USER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  875)
* ER_PASSWORD_NOT_ALLOWED error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  882)
* ER_PASSWORD_NO_MATCH error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  889)
* ER_PATH_LENGTH error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4492)
* ER_PLUGIN_IS_NOT_LOADED error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3419)
* ER_PLUGIN_IS_PERMANENT error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4686)
* ER_PLUGIN_NO_INSTALL error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4865)
* ER_PLUGIN_NO_UNINSTALL error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4856)
* ER_PRIMARY_CANT_HAVE_NULL error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1124)
* ER_PROCACCESS_DENIED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2419)
* ER_PROC_AUTO_GRANT_FAIL error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2614)
* ER_PROC_AUTO_REVOKE_FAIL error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2620)
* ER_PS_MANY_PARAM error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2536)
* ER_PS_NO_RECURSION error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2876)
* ER_QUERY_CACHE_DISABLED error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4245)
* ER_QUERY_INTERRUPTED error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2098)
* ER_QUERY_ON_FOREIGN_DATA_SOURCE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2785)
* ER_QUERY_ON_MASTER error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1481)
* ER_RANGE_NOT_INCREASING_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3220)
* ER_RBR_NOT_AVAILABLE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3752)
* ER_READY error code:                   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  535)
* ER_READ_ONLY_TRANSACTION error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1380)
* ER_RECORD_FILE_FULL error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  767)
* ER_REGEXP_ERROR error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  926)
* ER_RELAY_LOG_FAIL error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2425)
* ER_RELAY_LOG_INIT error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2476)
* ER_REMOVED_SPACES error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3029)
* ER_RENAMED_NAME error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4155)
* ER_REORG_HASH_ONLY_ON_SAME_NO error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3329)
* ER_REORG_NO_PARAM_ERROR error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3336)
* ER_REORG_OUTSIDE_RANGE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3393)
* ER_REORG_PARTITION_NOT_EXIST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3368)
* ER_REQUIRES_PRIMARY_KEY error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1136)
* ER_RESERVED_SYNTAX error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2488)
* ER_RESIGNAL_WITHOUT_ACTIVE_HANDLER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4207)
* ER_REVOKE_GRANTS error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1790)
* ER_ROW_IS_REFERENCED error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1464)
* ER_ROW_IS_REFERENCED_2 error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2923)
* ER_ROW_SINGLE_PARTITION_FIELD_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4289)
* ER_SAME_NAME_PARTITION error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3374)
* ER_SAME_NAME_PARTITION_FIELD error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4252)
* ER_SELECT_REDUCED error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1665)
* ER_SERVER_IS_IN_SECURE_AUTH_MODE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1830)
* ER_SERVER_SHUTDOWN error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  399)
* ER_SET_CONSTANTS_ONLY error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1346)
* ER_SET_PASSWORD_AUTH_PLUGIN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4659)
* ER_SHUTDOWN_COMPLETE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  552)
* ER_SIGNAL_BAD_CONDITION_TYPE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4213)
* ER_SIGNAL_EXCEPTION error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4201)
* ER_SIGNAL_NOT_FOUND error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4195)
* ER_SIGNAL_WARN error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4190)
* ER_SIZE_OVERFLOW_ERROR error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3467)
* ER_SLAVE_AMBIGOUS_EXEC_MODE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3969)
* ER_SLAVE_CANT_CREATE_CONVERSION error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4474)
* ER_SLAVE_CONVERSION_FAILED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4465)
* ER_SLAVE_CORRUPT_EVENT error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3998)
* ER_SLAVE_CREATE_EVENT_FAILURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3897)
* ER_SLAVE_FATAL_ERROR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3879)
* ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_FAILURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4077)
* ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4083)
* ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE_MAX error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4705)
* ER_SLAVE_HEARTBEAT_VALUE_OUT_OF_RANGE_MIN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4695)
* ER_SLAVE_IGNORED_SSL_PARAMS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1822)
* ER_SLAVE_IGNORED_TABLE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1594)
* ER_SLAVE_IGNORE_SERVER_IDS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4238)
* ER_SLAVE_INCIDENT error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3860)
* ER_SLAVE_MASTER_COM_FAILURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3903)
* ER_SLAVE_MUST_STOP error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1308)
* ER_SLAVE_NOT_RUNNING error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1315)
* ER_SLAVE_RELAY_LOG_READ_FAILURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3885)
* ER_SLAVE_RELAY_LOG_WRITE_FAILURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3891)
* ER_SLAVE_THREAD error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1334)
* ER_SLAVE_WAS_NOT_RUNNING error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1702)
* ER_SLAVE_WAS_RUNNING error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1696)
* ER_SPATIAL_CANT_HAVE_NULL error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1684)
* ER_SPATIAL_MUST_HAVE_GEOM_COL error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4556)
* ER_SPECIFIC_ACCESS_DENIED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1531)
* ER_SP_ALREADY_EXISTS error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2018)
* ER_SP_BADRETURN error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2071)
* ER_SP_BADSELECT error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2065)
* ER_SP_BADSTATEMENT error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2076)
* ER_SP_BAD_CURSOR_QUERY error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2128)
* ER_SP_BAD_CURSOR_SELECT error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2134)
* ER_SP_BAD_SQLSTATE error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2631)
* ER_SP_BAD_VAR_SHADOW error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2945)
* ER_SP_CANT_ALTER error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2196)
* ER_SP_CANT_SET_AUTOCOMMIT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2884)
* ER_SP_CASE_NOT_FOUND error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2226)
* ER_SP_COND_MISMATCH error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2111)
* ER_SP_CURSOR_AFTER_HANDLER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2220)
* ER_SP_CURSOR_ALREADY_OPEN error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2146)
* ER_SP_CURSOR_MISMATCH error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2140)
* ER_SP_CURSOR_NOT_OPEN error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2152)
* ER_SP_DOES_NOT_EXIST error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2024)
* ER_SP_DROP_FAILED error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2030)
* ER_SP_DUP_COND error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2186)
* ER_SP_DUP_CURS error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2191)
* ER_SP_DUP_HANDLER error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2668)
* ER_SP_DUP_PARAM error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2176)
* ER_SP_DUP_VAR error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2181)
* ER_SP_FETCH_NO_DATA error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2170)
* ER_SP_GOTO_IN_HNDLR error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2347)
* ER_SP_LABEL_MISMATCH error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2054)
* ER_SP_LABEL_REDEFINE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2048)
* ER_SP_LILABEL_MISMATCH error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2042)
* ER_SP_NORETURN error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2117)
* ER_SP_NORETURNEND error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2122)
* ER_SP_NOT_VAR_ARG error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2674)
* ER_SP_NO_AGGREGATE error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2992)
* ER_SP_NO_DROP_SP error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2341)
* ER_SP_NO_RECURSION error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2746)
* ER_SP_NO_RECURSIVE_CREATE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2012)
* ER_SP_NO_RETSET error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2681)
* ER_SP_PROC_TABLE_CORRUPT error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2973)
* ER_SP_RECURSION_LIMIT error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2966)
* ER_SP_STORE_FAILED error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2036)
* ER_SP_SUBSELECT_NYI error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2201)
* ER_SP_UNDECLARED_VAR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2158)
* ER_SP_UNINIT_VAR error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2060)
* ER_SP_VARCOND_AFTER_CURSHNDLR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2213)
* ER_SP_WRONG_NAME error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2980)
* ER_SP_WRONG_NO_OF_ARGS error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2104)
* ER_SP_WRONG_NO_OF_FETCH_ARGS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2164)
* ER_SR_INVALID_CREATION_CTX error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3927)
* ER_STACK_OVERRUN error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  803)
* ER_STACK_OVERRUN_NEED_MORE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2825)
* ER_STARTUP error code:                 server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2637)
* ER_STMT_CACHE_FULL error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4715)
* ER_STMT_HAS_NO_OPEN_CURSOR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2726)
* ER_STMT_NOT_ALLOWED_IN_SF_OR_TRG error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2207)
* ER_STORED_FUNCTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_DIRECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4545)
* ER_STORED_FUNCTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_BINLOG_FORMAT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3663)
* ER_STORED_FUNCTION_PREVENTS_SWITCH_SQL_LOG_BIN error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4625)
* ER_SUBPARTITION_ERROR error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3265)
* ER_SUBPARTITION_NAME error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4143)
* ER_SUBQUERY_NO_1_ROW error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1624)
* ER_SYNTAX_ERROR error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  988)
* ER_TABLEACCESS_DENIED_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  944)
* ER_TABLENAME_NOT_ALLOWED_HERE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1671)
* ER_TABLESPACE_AUTO_EXTEND_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3454)
* ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_AUTO_INCREMENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1080)
* ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_BLOB error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1074)
* ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_FT error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1441)
* ER_TABLE_CANT_HANDLE_SPKEYS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3017)
* ER_TABLE_DEF_CHANGED error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2662)
* ER_TABLE_EXISTS_ERROR error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  357)
* ER_TABLE_IN_FK_CHECK error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4907)
* ER_TABLE_MUST_HAVE_COLUMNS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  761)
* ER_TABLE_NAME error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4132)
* ER_TABLE_NEEDS_REBUILD error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4734)
* ER_TABLE_NEEDS_UPGRADE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2985)
* ER_TABLE_NOT_LOCKED error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  683)
* ER_TABLE_NOT_LOCKED_FOR_WRITE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  676)
* ER_TEMPORARY_NAME error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4149)
* ER_TEMP_TABLE_PREVENTS_SWITCH_OUT_OF_RBR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3656)
* ER_TEXTFILE_NOT_READABLE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  588)
* ER_TOO_BIG_DISPLAYWIDTH error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2844)
* ER_TOO_BIG_FIELDLENGTH error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  521)
* ER_TOO_BIG_FOR_UNCOMPRESS error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1708)
* ER_TOO_BIG_PRECISION error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2758)
* ER_TOO_BIG_ROWSIZE error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  795)
* ER_TOO_BIG_SCALE error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2752)
* ER_TOO_BIG_SELECT error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  706)
* ER_TOO_BIG_SET error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  665)
* ER_TOO_HIGH_LEVEL_OF_NESTING_FOR_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3071)
* ER_TOO_LONG_BODY error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2833)
* ER_TOO_LONG_FIELD_COMMENT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4114)
* ER_TOO_LONG_IDENT error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  435)
* ER_TOO_LONG_INDEX_COMMENT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4564)
* ER_TOO_LONG_KEY error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  503)
* ER_TOO_LONG_STRING error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1068)
* ER_TOO_LONG_TABLE_COMMENT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4108)
* ER_TOO_MANY_CONCURRENT_TRXS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4160)
* ER_TOO_MANY_DELAYED_THREADS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1002)
* ER_TOO_MANY_FIELDS error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  789)
* ER_TOO_MANY_KEYS error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  492)
* ER_TOO_MANY_KEY_PARTS error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  497)
* ER_TOO_MANY_PARTITIONS_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3259)
* ER_TOO_MANY_PARTITION_FUNC_FIELDS_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4270)
* ER_TOO_MANY_ROWS error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1131)
* ER_TOO_MANY_TABLES error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  783)
* ER_TOO_MANY_USER_CONNECTIONS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1339)
* ER_TOO_MANY_VALUES_ERROR error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4282)
* ER_TOO_MUCH_AUTO_TIMESTAMP_COLS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1949)
* ER_TRANS_CACHE_FULL error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1300)
* ER_TRG_ALREADY_EXISTS error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2353)
* ER_TRG_CANT_CHANGE_ROW error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2371)
* ER_TRG_CANT_OPEN_TABLE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3957)
* ER_TRG_CORRUPTED_FILE error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3933)
* ER_TRG_DOES_NOT_EXIST error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2359)
* ER_TRG_INVALID_CREATION_CTX error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3945)
* ER_TRG_IN_WRONG_SCHEMA error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2819)
* ER_TRG_NO_CREATION_CTX error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3939)
* ER_TRG_NO_DEFINER error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2951)
* ER_TRG_NO_SUCH_ROW_IN_TRG error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2377)
* ER_TRG_ON_VIEW_OR_TEMP_TABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2365)
* ER_TRUNCATED_WRONG_VALUE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1943)
* ER_TRUNCATED_WRONG_VALUE_FOR_FIELD error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2395)
* ER_TRUNCATE_ILLEGAL_FK error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4677)
* ER_UDF_EXISTS error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  839)
* ER_UDF_NO_PATHS error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  834)
* ER_UNDO_RECORD_TOO_BIG error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4783)
* ER_UNEXPECTED_EOF error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  291)
* ER_UNION_TABLES_IN_DIFFERENT_DIR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1413)
* ER_UNIQUE_KEY_NEED_ALL_FIELDS_IN_PF error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3284)
* ER_UNKNOWN_CHARACTER_SET error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  777)
* ER_UNKNOWN_COLLATION error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1816)
* ER_UNKNOWN_COM_ERROR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  340)
* ER_UNKNOWN_ERROR error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  714)
* ER_UNKNOWN_KEY_CACHE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1891)
* ER_UNKNOWN_LOCALE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4232)
* ER_UNKNOWN_PROCEDURE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  719)
* ER_UNKNOWN_STMT_HANDLER error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1630)
* ER_UNKNOWN_STORAGE_ENGINE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1904)
* ER_UNKNOWN_SYSTEM_VARIABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1274)
* ER_UNKNOWN_TABLE error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  737)
* ER_UNKNOWN_TARGET_BINLOG error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2436)
* ER_UNKNOWN_TIME_ZONE error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1981)
* ER_UNSUPORTED_LOG_ENGINE error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3787)
* ER_UNSUPPORTED_ENGINE error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4915)
* ER_UNSUPPORTED_EXTENSION error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  754)
* ER_UNSUPPORTED_PS error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1963)
* ER_UNTIL_COND_IGNORED error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1860)
* ER_UPDATE_INFO error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  895)
* ER_UPDATE_LOG_DEPRECATED_IGNORED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2082)
* ER_UPDATE_LOG_DEPRECATED_TRANSLATED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2090)
* ER_UPDATE_TABLE_USED error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  636)
* ER_UPDATE_WITHOUT_KEY_IN_SAFE_MODE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1163)
* ER_USERNAME error code:                server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3041)
* ER_USER_LIMIT_REACHED error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1524)
* ER_VALUES_IS_NOT_INT_TYPE_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4643)
* ER_VARIABLE_IS_NOT_STRUCT error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1809)
* ER_VARIABLE_IS_READONLY error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4063)
* ER_VAR_CANT_BE_READ error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1569)
* ER_VIEW_CHECKSUM error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2546)
* ER_VIEW_CHECK_FAILED error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2413)
* ER_VIEW_DELETE_MERGE_VIEW error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2564)
* ER_VIEW_FRM_NO_USER error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2897)
* ER_VIEW_INVALID error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2335)
* ER_VIEW_INVALID_CREATION_CTX error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3921)
* ER_VIEW_MULTIUPDATE error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2551)
* ER_VIEW_NONUPD_CHECK error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2407)
* ER_VIEW_NO_CREATION_CTX error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3915)
* ER_VIEW_NO_EXPLAIN error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2263)
* ER_VIEW_NO_INSERT_FIELD_LIST error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2558)
* ER_VIEW_OTHER_USER error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2905)
* ER_VIEW_PREVENT_UPDATE error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2869)
* ER_VIEW_RECURSIVE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3005)
* ER_VIEW_SELECT_CLAUSE error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2296)
* ER_VIEW_SELECT_DERIVED error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2290)
* ER_VIEW_SELECT_TMPTABLE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2308)
* ER_VIEW_SELECT_VARIABLE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2302)
* ER_VIEW_WRONG_LIST error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2314)
* ER_WARNING_NOT_COMPLETE_ROLLBACK error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1293)
* ER_WARN_ALLOWED_PACKET_OVERFLOWED error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1999)
* ER_WARN_CANT_DROP_DEFAULT_KEYCACHE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2838)
* ER_WARN_DATA_OUT_OF_RANGE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1760)
* ER_WARN_DEPRECATED_SYNTAX error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1910)
* ER_WARN_DEPRECATED_SYNTAX_NO_REPLACEMENT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4499)
* ER_WARN_DEPRECATED_SYNTAX_WITH_VER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3621)
* ER_WARN_ENGINE_TRANSACTION_ROLLBACK error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4070)
* ER_WARN_FIELD_RESOLVED error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1838)
* ER_WARN_HOSTNAME_WONT_WORK error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1897)
* ER_WARN_INVALID_TIMESTAMP error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1987)
* ER_WARN_I_S_SKIPPED_TABLE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4524)
* ER_WARN_NULL_TO_NOTNULL error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1753)
* ER_WARN_QC_RESIZE error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1879)
* ER_WARN_TOO_FEW_RECORDS error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1740)
* ER_WARN_TOO_MANY_RECORDS error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1746)
* ER_WARN_USING_OTHER_HANDLER error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1772)
* ER_WARN_VIEW_MERGE error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2321)
* ER_WARN_VIEW_WITHOUT_KEY error code:   server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2328)
* ER_WRONG_ARGUMENTS error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1401)
* ER_WRONG_AUTO_KEY error code:          server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  528)
* ER_WRONG_COLUMN_NAME error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1093)
* ER_WRONG_DB_NAME error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  695)
* ER_WRONG_EXPR_IN_PARTITION_FUNC_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3170)
* ER_WRONG_FIELD_SPEC error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  459)
* ER_WRONG_FIELD_TERMINATORS error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  574)
* ER_WRONG_FIELD_WITH_GROUP error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  411)
* ER_WRONG_FK_DEF error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1607)
* ER_WRONG_GROUP_FIELD error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  417)
* ER_WRONG_KEY_COLUMN error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1099)
* ER_WRONG_LOCK_OF_SYSTEM_TABLE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2772)
* ER_WRONG_MAGIC error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2531)
* ER_WRONG_MRG_TABLE error code:         server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1105)
* ER_WRONG_NAME_FOR_CATALOG error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1873)
* ER_WRONG_NAME_FOR_INDEX error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1867)
* ER_WRONG_NATIVE_TABLE_STRUCTURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4508)
* ER_WRONG_NUMBER_OF_COLUMNS_IN_SELECT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1498)
* ER_WRONG_OBJECT error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2276)
* ER_WRONG_OUTER_JOIN error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  809)
* ER_WRONG_PARAMCOUNT_TO_NATIVE_FCT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3807)
* ER_WRONG_PARAMCOUNT_TO_PROCEDURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  725)
* ER_WRONG_PARAMETERS_TO_NATIVE_FCT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3814)
* ER_WRONG_PARAMETERS_TO_PROCEDURE error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  731)
* ER_WRONG_PARAMETERS_TO_STORED_FCT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3820)
* ER_WRONG_PARTITION_NAME error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3707)
* ER_WRONG_PERFSCHEMA_USAGE error code:  server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4516)
* ER_WRONG_SIZE_NUMBER error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3460)
* ER_WRONG_SPVAR_TYPE_IN_LIMIT error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4587)
* ER_WRONG_STRING_LENGTH error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3051)
* ER_WRONG_SUB_KEY error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  611)
* ER_WRONG_SUM_SELECT error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  423)
* ER_WRONG_TABLE_NAME error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  700)
* ER_WRONG_TYPE_COLUMN_VALUE_ERROR error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4264)
* ER_WRONG_TYPE_FOR_VAR error code:      server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1563)
* ER_WRONG_USAGE error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1493)
* ER_WRONG_VALUE error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 3425)
* ER_WRONG_VALUE_COUNT error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  429)
* ER_WRONG_VALUE_COUNT_ON_ROW error code: server-error-reference.
                                                             (line  908)
* ER_WRONG_VALUE_FOR_TYPE error code:    server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2656)
* ER_WRONG_VALUE_FOR_VAR error code:     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1557)
* ER_WSAS_FAILED error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2495)
* ER_XAER_DUPID error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2850)
* ER_XAER_INVAL error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2580)
* ER_XAER_NOTA error code:               server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2575)
* ER_XAER_OUTSIDE error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2591)
* ER_XAER_RMERR error code:              server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2596)
* ER_XAER_RMFAIL error code:             server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2585)
* ER_XA_RBDEADLOCK error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4022)
* ER_XA_RBROLLBACK error code:           server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 2602)
* ER_XA_RBTIMEOUT error code:            server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 4016)
* ER_YES error code:                     server-error-reference.
                                                             (line   52)
* ER_ZLIB_Z_BUF_ERROR error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1721)
* ER_ZLIB_Z_DATA_ERROR error code:       server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1728)
* ER_ZLIB_Z_MEM_ERROR error code:        server-error-reference.
                                                             (line 1715)
* escape (\\):                           string-literals.    (line   94)
* escape sequences, option files:        option-files.       (line  197)
* escape sequences, strings:             string-literals.    (line    6)
* establishing encrypted connections:    using-encrypted-connections.
                                                             (line    6)
* estimating, query performance:         estimating-performance.
                                                             (line    6)
* event groups:                          set-global-sql-slave-skip-counter.
                                                             (line    6)
* event log format (NDB Cluster):        mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line    6)
* event logs (NDB Cluster):              mysql-cluster-event-reports.
                                                             (line   12)
* event logs (NDB Cluster) <1>:          mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* event logs (NDB Cluster) <2>:          mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands.
                                                             (line   38)
* EVENT privilege:                       privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  209)
* event scheduler:                       stored-objects.     (line   18)
* Event Scheduler:                       event-scheduler.    (line   15)
* Event Scheduler, altering events:      alter-event.        (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, and MySQL privileges: events-privileges.  (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, and mysqladmin debug: events-status-info. (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, and replication:      replication-features-invoked.
                                                             (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, and replication <1>:  replication-features-invoked.
                                                             (line   48)
* Event Scheduler, and SHOW PROCESSLIST: events-configuration.
                                                             (line   28)
* Event Scheduler, concepts:             events-overview.    (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, creating events:      create-event.       (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, dropping events:      drop-event.         (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, enabling and disabling: events-configuration.
                                                             (line   12)
* Event Scheduler, event metadata:       events-metadata.    (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, obtaining status information: events-status-info.
                                                             (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, SQL statements:       events-syntax.      (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, starting and stopping: events-configuration.
                                                             (line   12)
* event scheduler, thread states:        event-scheduler-thread-states.
                                                             (line    6)
* Event Scheduler, time representation:  events-metadata.    (line   21)
* event severity levels (NDB Cluster):   mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands.
                                                             (line   71)
* event table, system table:             system-schema.      (line   70)
* event types (NDB Cluster):             mysql-cluster-event-reports.
                                                             (line   48)
* event types (NDB Cluster) <1>:         mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line   20)
* EventLogBufferSize:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3305)
* events:                                stored-objects.     (line   18)
* events <1>:                            event-scheduler.    (line   15)
* events option, mysqldump:              mysqldump.          (line  789)
* events, altering:                      alter-event.        (line    6)
* events, creating:                      create-event.       (line    6)
* events, dropping:                      drop-event.         (line    6)
* EVENTS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:      events-privileges.  (line   71)
* EVENTS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table <1>:  events-table.       (line    6)
* events, metadata:                      events-metadata.    (line    6)
* events, restrictions:                  stored-program-restrictions.
                                                             (line    6)
* events, status variables:              events-privileges.  (line  166)
* events_waits_current table, performance_schema: events-waits-current-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* events_waits_history table, performance_schema: events-waits-history-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* events_waits_history_long table, performance_schema: events-waits-history-long-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* events_waits_summary_by_instance table, performance_schema: wait-summary-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* events_waits_summary_by_thread_by_event_name table, performance_schema: wait-summary-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* events_waits_summary_global_by_event_name table, performance_schema: wait-summary-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* event_scheduler system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1260)
* eviction:                              glossary.           (line 1017)
* exact-value literals:                  precision-math.     (line   14)
* exact-value numeric literals:          number-literals.    (line    6)
* exact-value numeric literals <1>:      precision-math-numbers.
                                                             (line    6)
* example option, mysqld_multi:          mysqld-multi.       (line  104)
* example programs, C API:               c-api-example-programs.
                                                             (line    6)
* EXAMPLE storage engine:                storage-engines.    (line   20)
* EXAMPLE storage engine <1>:            example-storage-engine.
                                                             (line    6)
* examples, compressed tables:           myisampack.         (line  134)
* examples, myisamchk output:            myisamchk-table-info.
                                                             (line    6)
* examples, queries:                     examples.           (line   18)
* exceptions table, NDB Cluster Replication: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line  545)
* exclude-databases option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  471)
* exclude-intermediate-sql-tables option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  489)
* exclude-missing-columns option, ndb_move_data: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line  148)
* exclude-missing-columns option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  513)
* exclude-missing-tables option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  532)
* exclude-tables option, ndb_restore:    mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  549)
* exclusive lock:                        innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* exclusive lock <1>:                    glossary.           (line 1023)
* EXECUTE:                               sql-prepared-statements.
                                                             (line   13)
* EXECUTE <1>:                           execute.            (line    6)
* execute option (ndb_mgm):              mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm.
                                                             (line   50)
* execute option, mysql:                 mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  434)
* EXECUTE privilege:                     privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  214)
* Execute, thread command:               thread-commands.    (line   63)
* ExecuteOnComputer:                     mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  111)
* ExecuteOnComputer <1>:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  137)
* ExecuteOnComputer <2>:                 mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  138)
* executing SQL statements from text files: batch-mode.      (line    6)
* executing SQL statements from text files <1>: mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* executing, thread state:               general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  136)
* Execution of init_command, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  141)
* execution plan:                        execution-plan-information.
                                                             (line   13)
* execution threads (NDB Cluster):       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4115)
* EXISTS, with subqueries:               exists-and-not-exists-subqueries.
                                                             (line    6)
* EXIT command (NDB Cluster):            mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line  197)
* exit command, mysql:                   mysql-commands.     (line  138)
* EXIT SINGLE USER MODE command (NDB Cluster): mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line  186)
* exit-info option, mysqld:              server-options.     (line  536)
* EXP():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  239)
* expire_logs_days system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1288)
* EXPLAIN:                               using-explain.      (line    6)
* EXPLAIN <1>:                           explain.            (line    6)
* EXPLAIN PARTITIONS:                    partitioning-info.  (line    6)
* EXPLAIN PARTITIONS <1>:                partitioning-info.  (line   54)
* EXPLAIN used with partitioned tables:  partitioning-info.  (line    6)
* explicit default values:               data-type-defaults. (line    6)
* EXPORT_SET():                          string-functions.   (line  308)
* expression aliases:                    group-by-handling.  (line   82)
* expression aliases <1>:                select.             (line  113)
* expression syntax:                     expressions.        (line    6)
* expressions, extended:                 pattern-matching.   (line    6)
* extend-check option, myisamchk:        myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   21)
* extend-check option, myisamchk <1>:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   33)
* extended option, mysqlcheck:           mysqlcheck.         (line  373)
* extended-insert option, mysqldump:     mysqldump.          (line  796)
* extensions, to standard SQL:           compatibility.      (line   12)
* extent:                                glossary.           (line 1031)
* ExteriorRing():                        gis-polygon-property-functions.
                                                             (line   53)
* external locking:                      server-options.     (line  549)
* external locking <1>:                  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 5338)
* external locking <2>:                  myisam-crash-recovery.
                                                             (line    6)
* external locking <3>:                  external-locking.   (line    6)
* external locking <4>:                  general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  359)
* external-locking option, mysqld:       server-options.     (line  550)
* external_user system variable:         server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1319)
* extra-file option, my_print_defaults:  my-print-defaults.  (line   47)
* extra-node-info option, ndb_desc:      mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc.
                                                             (line  306)
* extra-partition-info option, ndb_desc: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-desc.
                                                             (line  318)
* EXTRACT():                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  555)
* extracting, dates:                     date-calculations.  (line    6)
* ExtractValue():                        xml-functions.      (line  151)
* ExtraSendBufferMemory, API nodes:      mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  298)
* ExtraSendBufferMemory, data nodes:     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4982)
* ExtraSendBufferMemory, management nodes: mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  414)
* failover, in NDB Cluster replication:  mysql-cluster-replication-failover.
                                                             (line    6)
* failover, Java clients:                mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line  114)
* FALSE:                                 number-literals.    (line    6)
* FALSE <1>:                             boolean-literals.   (line    6)
* FALSE, testing for:                    comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  337)
* FALSE, testing for <1>:                comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  346)
* FAQs, C API:                           c-api-common-issues.
                                                             (line   11)
* FAQs, C API <1>:                       faqs-c-api.         (line    6)
* FAQs, libmysql:                        faqs-c-api.         (line    6)
* FAQs, Virtualization Support:          faqs-virtualization.
                                                             (line    6)
* Fast Index Creation:                   glossary.           (line 1049)
* Fast Index Creation, concurrency:      innodb-create-index-concurrency.
                                                             (line    6)
* Fast Index Creation, crash recovery:   innodb-create-index-recovery.
                                                             (line    6)
* Fast Index Creation, examples:         innodb-create-index-examples.
                                                             (line    6)
* Fast Index Creation, implementation:   innodb-create-index-implementation.
                                                             (line    6)
* Fast Index Creation, limitations:      innodb-create-index-limitations.
                                                             (line    6)
* Fast Index Creation, overview:         innodb-create-index-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* fast option, myisamchk:                myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   39)
* fast option, mysqlcheck:               mysqlcheck.         (line  399)
* fast shutdown:                         glossary.           (line 1071)
* features of MySQL:                     features.           (line    6)
* FEDERATED storage engine:              storage-engines.    (line   20)
* FEDERATED storage engine <1>:          federated-storage-engine.
                                                             (line   13)
* FETCH:                                 fetch.              (line    6)
* Fetch, thread command:                 thread-commands.    (line   68)
* Field List, thread command:            thread-commands.    (line   74)
* FIELD():                               string-functions.   (line  327)
* field, changing:                       alter-table.        (line  369)
* fields option, ndb_config:             mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  255)
* fields-enclosed-by option, mysqldump:  mysqldump.          (line  805)
* fields-enclosed-by option, mysqldump <1>: mysqlimport.     (line  283)
* fields-enclosed-by option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  646)
* fields-escaped-by option, mysqldump:   mysqldump.          (line  809)
* fields-escaped-by option, mysqldump <1>: mysqlimport.      (line  287)
* fields-optionally-enclosed-by option, mysqldump: mysqldump.
                                                             (line  807)
* fields-optionally-enclosed-by option, mysqldump <1>: mysqlimport.
                                                             (line  285)
* fields-optionally-enclosed-by option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  662)
* fields-terminated-by option, mysqldump: mysqldump.         (line  803)
* fields-terminated-by option, mysqldump <1>: mysqlimport.   (line  281)
* fields-terminated-by option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  679)
* FILE:                                  string-functions.   (line  472)
* file format:                           innodb-file-format. (line   13)
* file format <1>:                       glossary.           (line 1080)
* file format management, downgrading:   innodb-downgrading. (line    6)
* file format, Antelope:                 innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  116)
* file format, Barracuda:                innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* file format, downgrading:              innodb-file-format-downgrading.
                                                             (line    6)
* file format, identifying:              innodb-file-format-identifying.
                                                             (line    6)
* FILE privilege:                        privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  219)
* file-per-table:                        glossary.           (line 1087)
* files, binary log:                     binary-log.         (line   13)
* files, created by CREATE TABLE:        create-table-files. (line    6)
* files, DDL log:                        ddl-log.            (line    6)
* files, error messages:                 error-message-language.
                                                             (line    6)
* files, general query log:              query-log.          (line    6)
* FILES, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:       files-table.        (line    6)
* files, log:                            log-file-maintenance.
                                                             (line    6)
* files, metadata log:                   ddl-log.            (line    6)
* files, not found message:              file-permissions.   (line    6)
* files, permissions:                    file-permissions.   (line    6)
* files, repairing:                      myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* files, script:                         batch-mode.         (line    6)
* files, size limits:                    table-size-limit.   (line    6)
* files, slow query log:                 slow-query-log.     (line    6)
* files, text:                           mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* files, text <1>:                       mysqlimport.        (line    6)
* files, tmp:                            mysql-install-db-problems.
                                                             (line   69)
* filesort optimization:                 order-by-optimization.
                                                             (line  196)
* FileSystemPath:                        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  348)
* FileSystemPathDataFiles:               mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4724)
* FileSystemPathDD:                      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4685)
* FileSystemPathUndoFiles:               mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4759)
* file_instances table, performance_schema: file-instances-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* file_summary_by_event_name table, performance_schema: file-summary-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* file_summary_by_instance table, performance_schema: file-summary-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* fill factor:                           innodb-physical-structure.
                                                             (line    6)
* fill factor <1>:                       glossary.           (line 1107)
* fill_help_tables.sql:                  server-side-help-support.
                                                             (line    6)
* FIND_IN_SET():                         string-functions.   (line  347)
* Finished reading one binlog; switching to next binlog, thread state: master-thread-states.
                                                             (line   11)
* firewalls (software), and NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues.
                                                             (line   98)
* firewalls (software), and NDB Cluster <1>: mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues.
                                                             (line  162)
* first-slave option, mysqldump:         mysqldump.          (line  816)
* fix-db-names option, mysqlcheck:       mysqlcheck.         (line  404)
* fix-table-names option, mysqlcheck:    mysqlcheck.         (line  410)
* FIXED data type:                       numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  195)
* fixed row format:                      glossary.           (line 1117)
* fixed-point arithmetic:                precision-math.     (line   14)
* FLOAT data type:                       numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  203)
* FLOAT data type <1>:                   numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  227)
* FLOAT data type <2>:                   numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  245)
* floating-point number:                 numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  226)
* floating-point values, and replication: replication-features-floatvalues.
                                                             (line    6)
* floats:                                number-literals.    (line    6)
* FLOOR():                               mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  253)
* flush:                                 glossary.           (line 1124)
* flush list:                            glossary.           (line 1137)
* flush option, mysqld:                  server-options.     (line  575)
* FLUSH statement:                       flush.              (line    6)
* flush system variable:                 server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1339)
* flush tables:                          mysqladmin.         (line  217)
* FLUSH, and replication:                replication-features-flush.
                                                             (line    6)
* flush-logs option, mysqldump:          mysqldump.          (line  822)
* flush-privileges option, mysqldump:    mysqldump.          (line  837)
* flushing:                              innodb-buffer-pool-flushing.
                                                             (line    6)
* flushlog option, mysqlhotcopy:         mysqlhotcopy.       (line  141)
* flush_time system variable:            server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1369)
* FOR UPDATE:                            select.             (line  367)
* FORCE INDEX:                           index-hints.        (line    6)
* FORCE INDEX <1>:                       optimizer-issues.   (line   27)
* FORCE KEY:                             index-hints.        (line    6)
* force option, myisamchk:               myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   44)
* force option, myisamchk <1>:           myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   46)
* force option, myisampack:              myisampack.         (line   74)
* force option, mysql:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  442)
* force option, mysqladmin:              mysqladmin.         (line  455)
* force option, mysqlcheck:              mysqlcheck.         (line  417)
* force option, mysqldump:               mysqldump.          (line  845)
* force option, mysqlimport:             mysqlimport.        (line  293)
* force option, mysql_convert_table_format: mysql-convert-table-format.
                                                             (line   30)
* force option, mysql_install_db:        mysql-install-db.   (line  139)
* force option, mysql_upgrade:           mysql-upgrade.      (line  326)
* FORCE, plugin activation option:       plugin-loading.     (line  160)
* force-if-open option, mysqlbinlog:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  456)
* force-read option, mysqlbinlog:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  462)
* FORCE_PLUS_PERMANENT, plugin activation option: plugin-loading.
                                                             (line  166)
* foreign key:                           glossary.           (line 1143)
* FOREIGN KEY constraint:                glossary.           (line 1164)
* foreign key constraints:               create-table-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* FOREIGN KEY constraints, and fast index creation: innodb-create-index-limitations.
                                                             (line    6)
* foreign key, constraint:               constraint-primary-key.
                                                             (line    6)
* foreign key, constraint <1>:           constraint-foreign-key.
                                                             (line    6)
* foreign key, deleting:                 alter-table.        (line  590)
* foreign key, deleting <1>:             create-table-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line  255)
* foreign keys:                          ansi-diff-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* foreign keys <1>:                      example-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* foreign keys <2>:                      alter-table.        (line  559)
* foreign_key_checks system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1403)
* FORMAT():                              string-functions.   (line  363)
* forums:                                forums.             (line    6)
* FOUND_ROWS():                          information-functions.
                                                             (line  263)
* FragmentLogFileSize:                   mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1365)
* FreeBSD troubleshooting:               compilation-problems.
                                                             (line   80)
* freeing items, thread state:           general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  147)
* frequently-asked questions about NDB Cluster: faqs-mysql-cluster.
                                                             (line    6)
* FROM:                                  select.             (line  141)
* FROM_DAYS():                           date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  573)
* FROM_UNIXTIME():                       date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  585)
* fs option (ndb_error_reporter):        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-error-reporter.
                                                             (line  102)
* FTS:                                   glossary.           (line 1193)
* ft_boolean_syntax system variable:     server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1454)
* ft_max_word_len myisamchk variable:    myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* ft_max_word_len system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1494)
* ft_min_word_len myisamchk variable:    myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* ft_min_word_len system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1520)
* ft_query_expansion_limit system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1548)
* ft_stopword_file myisamchk variable:   myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* ft_stopword_file system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1573)
* full backup:                           glossary.           (line 1196)
* full disk:                             full-disk.          (line    6)
* full table scan:                       glossary.           (line 1200)
* full table scans, avoiding:            table-scan-avoidance.
                                                             (line    6)
* full-text parser plugins:              plugin-types.       (line   52)
* full-text queries, optimization:       column-indexes.     (line   65)
* full-text queries, optimization <1>:   optimizing-innodb-queries.
                                                             (line    6)
* full-text search:                      fulltext-search.    (line   16)
* full-text search <1>:                  glossary.           (line 1212)
* FULLTEXT:                              fulltext-search.    (line   16)
* FULLTEXT index:                        glossary.           (line 1218)
* FULLTEXT initialization, thread state: general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  154)
* fulltext join type, optimizer:         explain-output.     (line  335)
* fulltext, stopword list:               fulltext-fine-tuning.
                                                             (line   40)
* func table, system table:              system-schema.      (line   75)
* function names, parsing:               function-resolution.
                                                             (line    6)
* function names, resolving ambiguity:   function-resolution.
                                                             (line    6)
* function, creating:                    create-function-udf.
                                                             (line    6)
* function, deleting:                    drop-function-udf.  (line    6)
* functions:                             functions.          (line   28)
* functions, adding:                     adding-functions.   (line   12)
* functions, and replication:            replication-features-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, arithmetic:                 bit-functions.      (line    6)
* functions, bit:                        bit-functions.      (line    6)
* functions, C API:                      c-api-function-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, cast:                       cast-functions.     (line    6)
* functions, control flow:               control-flow-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, date and time:              date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, encryption:                 encryption-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, for SELECT and WHERE clauses: functions.        (line   28)
* functions, GROUP BY:                   group-by-functions. (line    6)
* functions, grouping:                   operator-precedence.
                                                             (line   52)
* functions, information:                information-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, locking:                    locking-functions.  (line    6)
* functions, mathematical:               mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line   84)
* functions, miscellaneous:              miscellaneous-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, native, adding:             adding-native-function.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, prepared statement C API:   c-api-prepared-statement-type-conversions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, prepared statement C API <1>: c-api-prepared-statement-function-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, stored:                     stored-routines.    (line   13)
* functions, string:                     string-functions.   (line   12)
* functions, string comparison:          string-comparison-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, user-defined:               create-function-udf.
                                                             (line    6)
* functions, user-defined <1>:           drop-function-udf.  (line    6)
* functions, user-defined <2>:           adding-functions.   (line   12)
* functions, user-defined, adding:       adding-udf.         (line    6)
* fuzzy checkpointing:                   glossary.           (line 1224)
* GA:                                    glossary.           (line 1230)
* GA, MySQL releases:                    which-version.      (line   20)
* gap:                                   glossary.           (line 1233)
* gap event:                             mysql-cluster-replication-issues.
                                                             (line   29)
* gap lock:                              innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* gap lock <1>:                          glossary.           (line 1242)
* gap lock, InnoDB:                      innodb-next-key-locking.
                                                             (line    6)
* gap lock, InnoDB <1>:                  innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* gb2312, gbk:                           faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* gci option, ndb_select_all:            mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line  157)
* gci64 option, ndb_select_all:          mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line  165)
* GCP Stop errors (NDB Cluster):         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4943)
* gdb option, mysqld:                    server-options.     (line  604)
* gdb, using:                            using-gdb-on-mysqld.
                                                             (line    6)
* general information:                   introduction.       (line   17)
* General Public License:                what-is-mysql.      (line   54)
* general query log:                     query-log.          (line    6)
* general query log <1>:                 glossary.           (line 1254)
* general tablespace:                    glossary.           (line 1266)
* general_log system variable:           server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1604)
* general_log table, system table:       system-schema.      (line   87)
* general_log_file system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1628)
* geographic feature:                    spatial-types.      (line   55)
* GeomCollFromText():                    gis-wkt-functions.  (line   16)
* GeomCollFromWKB():                     gis-wkb-functions.  (line   22)
* geometry:                              spatial-types.      (line   68)
* GEOMETRY data type:                    spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* geometry values, internal storage format: gis-data-formats.
                                                             (line  142)
* geometry values, WKB format:           gis-data-formats.   (line   93)
* geometry values, WKT format:           gis-data-formats.   (line   30)
* GEOMETRYCOLLECTION data type:          spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* GeometryCollection():                  gis-mysql-specific-functions.
                                                             (line   22)
* GeometryCollectionFromText():          gis-wkt-functions.  (line   17)
* GeometryCollectionFromWKB():           gis-wkb-functions.  (line   23)
* GeometryFromText():                    gis-wkt-functions.  (line   24)
* GeometryFromWKB():                     gis-wkb-functions.  (line   30)
* GeometryN():                           gis-geometrycollection-property-functions.
                                                             (line    8)
* GeometryType():                        gis-general-property-functions.
                                                             (line   39)
* GeomFromText():                        gis-wkt-functions.  (line   23)
* GeomFromWKB():                         gis-wkb-functions.  (line   29)
* geospatial feature:                    spatial-types.      (line   65)
* German dictionary collation:           charset-mysql.      (line   77)
* German dictionary collation <1>:       charset-we-sets.    (line   69)
* German dictionary collation <2>:       charset-we-sets.    (line   77)
* German phone book collation:           charset-mysql.      (line   77)
* German phone book collation <1>:       charset-we-sets.    (line   69)
* German phone book collation <2>:       charset-we-sets.    (line   77)
* getting MySQL:                         getting-mysql.      (line    6)
* GET_FORMAT():                          date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  617)
* GET_LOCK():                            locking-functions.  (line   22)
* GIS:                                   spatial-types.      (line   18)
* GIS data types, storage requirements:  storage-requirements.
                                                             (line  303)
* Git tree:                              installing-development-tree.
                                                             (line    6)
* GLength():                             gis-linestring-property-functions.
                                                             (line   27)
* global privileges:                     grant.              (line    6)
* global privileges <1>:                 revoke.             (line    6)
* global transaction:                    glossary.           (line 1283)
* GLOBAL, SET statement:                 set-variable.       (line    6)
* GLOBAL_STATUS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: status-table.     (line    6)
* GLOBAL_VARIABLES, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: variables-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* go command, mysql:                     mysql-commands.     (line  143)
* Google Test:                           source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  619)
* got handler lock, thread state:        delayed-insert-thread-states.
                                                             (line   28)
* got old table, thread state:           delayed-insert-thread-states.
                                                             (line   35)
* GRANT OPTION privilege:                privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  248)
* GRANT statement:                       creating-accounts.  (line    6)
* GRANT statement <1>:                   grant.              (line    6)
* grant table distribution (NDB Cluster): mysql-cluster-privilege-distribution.
                                                             (line    6)
* grant tables, columns_priv table:      system-schema.      (line   53)
* grant tables, columns_priv table <1>:  grant-tables.       (line   63)
* grant tables, db table:                default-privileges. (line    6)
* grant tables, db table <1>:            system-schema.      (line   47)
* grant tables, db table <2>:            grant-tables.       (line   57)
* grant tables, host table:              system-schema.      (line   49)
* grant tables, host table <1>:          grant-tables.       (line   59)
* grant tables, procs_priv table:        system-schema.      (line   55)
* grant tables, procs_priv table <1>:    grant-tables.       (line   65)
* grant tables, proxies_priv:            proxy-users.        (line  173)
* grant tables, proxies_priv table:      default-privileges. (line    6)
* grant tables, proxies_priv table <1>:  system-schema.      (line   57)
* grant tables, proxies_priv table <2>:  grant-tables.       (line   67)
* grant tables, re-creating:             mysql-install-db-problems.
                                                             (line  103)
* grant tables, sorting:                 connection-access.  (line  140)
* grant tables, sorting <1>:             request-access.     (line   50)
* grant tables, structure:               grant-tables.       (line    6)
* grant tables, tables_priv table:       system-schema.      (line   51)
* grant tables, tables_priv table <1>:   grant-tables.       (line   61)
* grant tables, user table:              default-privileges. (line    6)
* grant tables, user table <1>:          system-schema.      (line   45)
* grant tables, user table <2>:          grant-tables.       (line   55)
* granting, privileges:                  grant.              (line    6)
* grants, display:                       show-grants.        (line    6)
* greater than (>):                      comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  182)
* greater than or equal (>=):            comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  170)
* greatest timestamp wins (conflict resolution): mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line  309)
* greatest timestamp, delete wins (conflict resolution): mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line  335)
* GREATEST():                            comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  241)
* Group (NDB Cluster):                   mysql-cluster-sci-definition.
                                                             (line   80)
* GROUP BY functions:                    group-by-functions. (line    6)
* GROUP BY optimizing:                   group-by-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* GROUP BY, aliases in:                  group-by-handling.  (line   82)
* GROUP BY, extensions to standard SQL:  group-by-handling.  (line    6)
* GROUP BY, extensions to standard SQL <1>: select.          (line  207)
* GROUP BY, implicit sorting:            order-by-optimization.
                                                             (line  183)
* GROUP BY, maximum sort length:         select.             (line  226)
* GROUP BY, WITH ROLLUP:                 group-by-modifiers. (line    6)
* group commit:                          innodb-redo-log.    (line   55)
* group commit <1>:                      glossary.           (line 1290)
* grouping, expressions:                 operator-precedence.
                                                             (line   52)
* GROUP_CONCAT():                        group-by-functions. (line  188)
* group_concat_max_len system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1650)
* HANDLER:                               handler.            (line    6)
* Handlers:                              declare-handler.    (line    6)
* handling, errors:                      adding-udf.         (line  508)
* hash index:                            glossary.           (line 1296)
* hash indexes:                          index-btree-hash.   (line    6)
* hash partitioning:                     partitioning-hash.  (line   10)
* hash partitions, managing:             partitioning-management-hash-key.
                                                             (line    6)
* hash partitions, splitting and merging: partitioning-management-hash-key.
                                                             (line    6)
* have_compress system variable:         server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1684)
* have_crypt system variable:            server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1691)
* have_csv system variable:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1697)
* have_dynamic_loading system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1706)
* have_geometry system variable:         server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1715)
* have_innodb system variable:           server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1720)
* have_openssl system variable:          server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1731)
* have_partitioning system variable:     server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1733)
* have_profiling system variable:        server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1742)
* have_query_cache system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1749)
* have_rtree_keys system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1755)
* have_ssl system variable:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1763)
* have_symlink system variable:          server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1791)
* HAVING:                                select.             (line  240)
* HDD:                                   glossary.           (line 1308)
* header option, ndb_select_all:         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line  125)
* header_file option, comp_err:          comp-err.           (line   48)
* HEAP storage engine:                   storage-engines.    (line   20)
* HEAP storage engine <1>:               memory-storage-engine.
                                                             (line    6)
* heartbeat:                             glossary.           (line 1313)
* HeartbeatIntervalDbApi:                mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2440)
* HeartbeatIntervalDbDb:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2399)
* HeartbeatIntervalMgmdMgmd, management nodes: mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  464)
* HeartbeatOrder:                        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2475)
* HeartbeatThreadPriority:               mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  382)
* HeartbeatThreadPriority <1>:           mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  322)
* HELP command (NDB Cluster):            mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line   34)
* help command, mysql:                   mysql-commands.     (line   52)
* help option (NDB Cluster programs):    mysql-cluster-program-options-common.
                                                             (line  200)
* help option, comp_err:                 comp-err.           (line   26)
* help option, myisamchk:                myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   12)
* HELP option, myisamchk:                myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   18)
* help option, myisampack:               myisampack.         (line   51)
* help option, myisam_ftdump:            myisam-ftdump.      (line   64)
* help option, mysql:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  236)
* help option, mysqlaccess:              mysqlaccess.        (line   89)
* help option, mysqladmin:               mysqladmin.         (line  352)
* help option, mysqlbinlog:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  230)
* help option, mysqlcheck:               mysqlcheck.         (line  236)
* help option, mysqld:                   server-options.     (line  106)
* help option, mysqldump:                mysqldump.          (line  503)
* help option, mysqldumpslow:            mysqldumpslow.      (line   69)
* help option, mysqld_multi:             mysqld-multi.       (line   92)
* help option, mysqld_safe:              mysqld-safe.        (line  111)
* help option, mysqlhotcopy:             mysqlhotcopy.       (line  101)
* help option, mysqlimport:              mysqlimport.        (line  159)
* help option, MySQLInstallerConsole:    MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line   73)
* help option, mysqlshow:                mysqlshow.          (line  144)
* help option, mysqlslap:                mysqlslap.          (line  238)
* help option, mysql_convert_table_format: mysql-convert-table-format.
                                                             (line   25)
* help option, mysql_find_rows:          mysql-find-rows.    (line   29)
* help option, mysql_install_db:         mysql-install-db.   (line   89)
* help option, mysql_plugin:             mysql-plugin.       (line  102)
* help option, mysql_setpermission:      mysql-setpermission.
                                                             (line   30)
* help option, mysql_upgrade:            mysql-upgrade.      (line  228)
* help option, mysql_waitpid:            mysql-waitpid.      (line   28)
* help option, my_print_defaults:        my-print-defaults.  (line   26)
* help option, perror:                   perror.             (line   45)
* help option, resolveip:                resolveip.          (line   16)
* help option, resolve_stack_dump:       resolve-stack-dump. (line   22)
* HELP statement:                        help.               (line    6)
* help tables, system tables:            system-schema.      (line   99)
* help_category table, system table:     system-schema.      (line  101)
* help_keyword table, system table:      system-schema.      (line  104)
* help_relation table, system table:     system-schema.      (line  107)
* help_topic table, system table:        system-schema.      (line  110)
* hex option, ndb_restore:               mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  694)
* HEX():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  271)
* HEX() <1>:                             string-functions.   (line  386)
* hex-blob option, mysqldump:            mysqldump.          (line  873)
* hexadecimal literal introducer:        hexadecimal-literals.
                                                             (line   61)
* hexadecimal literals:                  hexadecimal-literals.
                                                             (line    6)
* hexdump option, mysqlbinlog:           mysqlbinlog.        (line  470)
* high-water mark:                       glossary.           (line 1319)
* HIGH_NOT_PRECEDENCE SQL mode:          sql-mode.           (line  179)
* HIGH_PRIORITY, INSERT modifier:        insert.             (line  283)
* HIGH_PRIORITY, SELECT modifier:        select.             (line  394)
* hints:                                 extensions-to-ansi. (line    6)
* hints, index:                          index-hints.        (line    6)
* hints, index <1>:                      select.             (line  150)
* history list:                          glossary.           (line 1323)
* history of MySQL:                      history.            (line    6)
* hole punching:                         glossary.           (line 1333)
* HOME environment variable:             mysql-logging.      (line    6)
* HOME environment variable <1>:         environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* host name caching:                     host-cache.         (line    6)
* host name resolution:                  host-cache.         (line    6)
* host name, default:                    connecting.         (line    6)
* host names:                            connecting.         (line    6)
* host names, in account names:          account-names.      (line    6)
* host names, in default accounts:       default-privileges. (line    6)
* host option:                           connection-options. (line   61)
* host option, mysql:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  447)
* host option, mysqlaccess:              mysqlaccess.        (line  122)
* host option, mysqladmin:               mysqladmin.         (line  461)
* host option, mysqlbinlog:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  477)
* host option, mysqlcheck:               mysqlcheck.         (line  422)
* host option, mysqldump:                mysqldump.          (line  867)
* host option, mysqlhotcopy:             mysqlhotcopy.       (line  146)
* host option, mysqlimport:              mysqlimport.        (line  300)
* host option, mysqlshow:                mysqlshow.          (line  248)
* host option, mysqlslap:                mysqlslap.          (line  418)
* host option, mysql_convert_table_format: mysql-convert-table-format.
                                                             (line   35)
* host option, mysql_setpermission:      mysql-setpermission.
                                                             (line   35)
* host option, mysql_upgrade:            mysql-upgrade.      (line  333)
* host option, ndb_config:               mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  275)
* host table:                            request-access.     (line  148)
* host table, sorting:                   request-access.     (line   50)
* host table, system table:              system-schema.      (line   49)
* host table, system table <1>:          grant-tables.       (line   59)
* Host*SciId* parameters:                mysql-cluster-sci-definition.
                                                             (line  101)
* HostName:                              mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  153)
* HostName <1>:                          mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  158)
* HostName <2>:                          mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  159)
* HostName (NDB Cluster):                mysql-cluster-security-networking-issues.
                                                             (line   40)
* hostname system variable:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1800)
* HostName1:                             mysql-cluster-tcp-definition.
                                                             (line  105)
* HostName1 <1>:                         mysql-cluster-shm-definition.
                                                             (line   71)
* HostName1 <2>:                         mysql-cluster-sci-definition.
                                                             (line  184)
* HostName2:                             mysql-cluster-tcp-definition.
                                                             (line  128)
* HostName2 <1>:                         mysql-cluster-shm-definition.
                                                             (line   94)
* HostName2 <2>:                         mysql-cluster-sci-definition.
                                                             (line  207)
* hot:                                   glossary.           (line 1339)
* hot backup:                            glossary.           (line 1346)
* HOUR():                                date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  670)
* howto option, mysqlaccess:             mysqlaccess.        (line  127)
* html option, mysql:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  452)
* i-am-a-dummy option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  713)
* ib-file set:                           innodb-file-format-compatibility.
                                                             (line   11)
* ib-file set <1>:                       glossary.           (line 1365)
* ibbackup_logfile:                      glossary.           (line 1382)
* ibdata file:                           create-table-files. (line    6)
* ibdata file <1>:                       glossary.           (line 1410)
* ibtmp file:                            glossary.           (line 1423)
* ib_logfile:                            glossary.           (line 1373)
* icc, and NDB Cluster support>:         porting.            (line   30)
* icc, MySQL builds:                     compiler-characteristics.
                                                             (line    6)
* Id:                                    mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line   40)
* Id <1>:                                mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line   80)
* Id <2>:                                mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line   46)
* ID, unique:                            getting-unique-id.  (line    6)
* identifiers:                           identifiers.        (line   14)
* identifiers, case sensitivity:         identifier-case-sensitivity.
                                                             (line    6)
* identifiers, quoting:                  identifiers.        (line   22)
* identity system variable:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1815)
* IF:                                    if.                 (line    6)
* IF():                                  control-flow-functions.
                                                             (line   51)
* IFNULL():                              control-flow-functions.
                                                             (line   87)
* IGNORE INDEX:                          index-hints.        (line    6)
* IGNORE KEY:                            index-hints.        (line    6)
* ignore option, mysqlimport:            mysqlimport.        (line  306)
* IGNORE, DELETE modifier:               delete.             (line   88)
* IGNORE, DELETE modifier <1>:           load-data.          (line  205)
* IGNORE, INSERT modifier:               insert.             (line  294)
* IGNORE, UPDATE modifier:               update.             (line   72)
* IGNORE, with partitioned tables:       insert.             (line  294)
* ignore-lines option, mysqlimport:      mysqlimport.        (line  311)
* ignore-spaces option, mysql:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  457)
* ignore-table option, mysqldump:        mysqldump.          (line  891)
* IGNORE_AIO_CHECK option, CMake:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  669)
* ignore_builtin_innodb system variable: innodb-parameters.  (line  347)
* IGNORE_SPACE SQL mode:                 sql-mode.           (line  195)
* ilist:                                 glossary.           (line 1445)
* implicit default values:               data-type-defaults. (line    6)
* implicit GROUP BY sorting:             order-by-optimization.
                                                             (line  183)
* implicit row lock:                     glossary.           (line 1449)
* IMPORT TABLESPACE:                     alter-table.        (line  694)
* importing, data:                       mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* importing, data <1>:                   mysqlimport.        (line    6)
* IN:                                    any-in-some-subqueries.
                                                             (line    6)
* IN():                                  comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  257)
* in-memory database:                    glossary.           (line 1452)
* include option, mysql_config:          mysql-config.       (line   23)
* include-databases option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  705)
* include-master-host-port option, mysqldump: mysqldump.     (line  883)
* include-tables option, ndb_restore:    mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  721)
* increasing with replication, speed:    replication.        (line   13)
* incremental backup:                    glossary.           (line 1466)
* incremental recovery:                  point-in-time-recovery.
                                                             (line   11)
* incremental recovery, using NDB Cluster replication: mysql-cluster-replication-pitr.
                                                             (line    6)
* index:                                 glossary.           (line 1479)
* index cache:                           glossary.           (line 1502)
* index condition pushdown:              glossary.           (line 1511)
* INDEX DIRECTORY, and replication:      replication-features-directory.
                                                             (line    6)
* index dives (for statistics estimation): innodb-statistics-estimation.
                                                             (line   10)
* index hint:                            glossary.           (line 1520)
* index hints:                           index-hints.        (line    6)
* index hints <1>:                       select.             (line  150)
* index join type, optimizer:            explain-output.     (line  407)
* index prefix:                          glossary.           (line 1526)
* INDEX privilege:                       privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  253)
* index statistics, NDB:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5163)
* index, deleting:                       alter-table.        (line  517)
* index, deleting <1>:                   drop-index.         (line    6)
* index, rebuilding:                     rebuilding-tables.  (line    6)
* index-record lock, InnoDB:             innodb-next-key-locking.
                                                             (line    6)
* index-record lock, InnoDB <1>:         innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* indexes:                               create-index.       (line    6)
* indexes, and BLOB columns:             column-indexes.     (line   32)
* indexes, and BLOB columns <1>:         create-table.       (line  296)
* indexes, and IS NULL:                  index-btree-hash.   (line   43)
* indexes, and LIKE:                     index-btree-hash.   (line   17)
* indexes, and ndb_restore:              mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line 1145)
* indexes, and NULL values:              create-table.       (line  304)
* indexes, and TEXT columns:             column-indexes.     (line   32)
* indexes, and TEXT columns <1>:         create-table.       (line  296)
* indexes, assigning to key cache:       cache-index.        (line    6)
* indexes, BLOB columns:                 create-index.       (line   77)
* indexes, block size:                   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2042)
* indexes, column prefixes:              column-indexes.     (line   32)
* indexes, columns:                      column-indexes.     (line    6)
* indexes, creating and dropping:        innodb-create-index-implementation.
                                                             (line    6)
* indexes, leftmost prefix of:           mysql-indexes.      (line   30)
* indexes, leftmost prefix of <1>:       multiple-column-indexes.
                                                             (line   84)
* indexes, multi-column:                 multiple-column-indexes.
                                                             (line    6)
* indexes, multiple-part:                create-index.       (line    6)
* indexes, names:                        identifiers.        (line   14)
* indexes, primary (clustered) and secondary: innodb-create-index-implementation.
                                                             (line    6)
* indexes, TEXT columns:                 create-index.       (line   77)
* indexes, TIMESTAMP lookups:            timestamp-lookups.  (line    6)
* indexes, use of:                       mysql-indexes.      (line    6)
* IndexMemory:                           mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  531)
* IndexStatAutoCreate, data nodes:       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5166)
* IndexStatAutoUpdate, data nodes:       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5190)
* IndexStatSaveScale, data nodes:        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5250)
* IndexStatSaveSize, data nodes:         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5216)
* IndexStatTriggerPct, data nodes:       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5276)
* IndexStatTriggerScale, data nodes:     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5301)
* IndexStatUpdateDelay, data nodes:      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5324)
* index_merge join type, optimizer:      explain-output.     (line  354)
* index_subquery join type, optimizer:   explain-output.     (line  374)
* INET_ATON():                           miscellaneous-functions.
                                                             (line   49)
* INET_NTOA():                           miscellaneous-functions.
                                                             (line   76)
* infimum record:                        glossary.           (line 1532)
* INFO Events (NDB Cluster):             mysql-cluster-log-events.
                                                             (line  335)
* information functions:                 information-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* information option, myisamchk:         myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   51)
* INFORMATION SCHEMA, InnoDB tables:     innodb-information-schema.
                                                             (line   12)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA:                    information-schema. (line   41)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA <1>:                glossary.           (line 1539)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA plugins:            plugin-types.       (line  147)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA queries, optimization: information-schema-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, and security issues: mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges.
                                                             (line   97)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, collation and searching: charset-collation-information-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, InnoDB tables:     innodb-i_s-tables.  (line   17)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_CMP table:  innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmp.
                                                             (line    6)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_CMPMEM table: innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem.
                                                             (line    6)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_CMPMEM_RESET table: innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmpmem.
                                                             (line    6)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_CMP_RESET table: innodb-information-schema-innodb_cmp.
                                                             (line    6)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_LOCKS table: innodb-information-schema-transactions.
                                                             (line   39)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_LOCK_WAITS table: innodb-information-schema-transactions.
                                                             (line   52)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, INNODB_TRX table:  innodb-information-schema-transactions.
                                                             (line   21)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, NDB Cluster tables: mysql-cluster-i_s-tables.
                                                             (line   11)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA, Thread pool tables: thread-pool-i_s-tables.
                                                             (line   12)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA.ENGINES table, and NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-sql-statements.
                                                             (line   36)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA.GLOBAL_STATUS table, and NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-sql-statements.
                                                             (line  164)
* INFORMATION_SCHEMA.GLOBAL_VARIABLES table, and NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-sql-statements.
                                                             (line   86)
* Init DB, thread command:               thread-commands.    (line   79)
* init, thread state:                    general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  160)
* init-command option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  464)
* InitFragmentLogFiles:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1395)
* initial option (ndbd):                 mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  218)
* initial option (ndbmtd):               mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  219)
* initial option (ndb_mgmd):             mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  274)
* initial-start option (ndbd):           mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  289)
* initial-start option (ndbmtd):         mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  290)
* Initialized, thread state:             event-scheduler-thread-states.
                                                             (line   16)
* InitialLogFileGroup:                   mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4802)
* InitialNoOfOpenFiles:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1456)
* InitialTablespace:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4878)
* init_connect system variable:          server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1823)
* init_file system variable:             server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1854)
* init_slave system variable:            replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  808)
* INNER JOIN:                            join.               (line    6)
* innochecksum:                          programs-overview.  (line  162)
* innochecksum <1>:                      innochecksum.       (line    6)
* InnoDB:                                innodb-introduction.
                                                             (line   16)
* InnoDB <1>:                            glossary.           (line 1551)
* InnoDB buffer pool:                    innodb-buffer-pool-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB buffer pool <1>:                innodb-buffer-pool. (line  118)
* InnoDB buffer pool <2>:                innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB buffer pool <3>:                innodb-performance-read_ahead.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB Monitors:                       innodb-monitors.    (line   14)
* InnoDB Monitors, enabling:             innodb-enabling-monitors.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB Monitors, output:               innodb-standard-monitor.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb option, mysqld:                 innodb-parameters.  (line  285)
* InnoDB parameters, deprecated, innodb_file_io_threads: innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB parameters, new, innodb_file_format_check: innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB parameters, new, innodb_large_prefix: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1411)
* InnoDB storage engine:                 innodb-introduction.
                                                             (line   16)
* InnoDB storage engine <1>:             storage-engines.    (line   20)
* InnoDB storage engine, compatibility:  innodb-compatibility.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB tables, storage requirements:   storage-requirements.
                                                             (line   49)
* InnoDB, .frm files:                    using-innodb-tables.
                                                             (line   51)
* InnoDB, adaptive hash index:           innodb-adaptive-hash.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, and application feature requirements: mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, application performance:       converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  325)
* InnoDB, applications supported:        mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-workloads.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, architecture:                  innodb-architecture.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, asynchronous I/O:              innodb-linux-native-aio.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, auto-inc lock:                 innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, auto-increment columns:        innodb-auto-increment-handling.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, autocommit mode:               innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, autocommit mode <1>:           innodb-autocommit-commit-rollback.
                                                             (line   41)
* InnoDB, availability:                  mysql-cluster-compared.
                                                             (line   35)
* InnoDB, backups:                       innodb-backup.      (line    6)
* InnoDB, change buffer:                 innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, checkpoints:                   innodb-checkpoints. (line    6)
* InnoDB, clustered index:               innodb-index-types. (line    6)
* InnoDB, COMPACT row format:            innodb-row-format.  (line  172)
* InnoDB, compared to NDB Cluster:       mysql-cluster-compared.
                                                             (line   12)
* InnoDB, compared to NDB Cluster <1>:   mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-engines.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, compared to NDB Cluster <2>:   mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-workloads.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, compared to NDB Cluster <3>:   mysql-cluster-ndb-innodb-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, configuration parameters:      innodb-parameters.  (line    6)
* InnoDB, consistent reads:              innodb-consistent-read.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, corruption:                    innodb-recovery.    (line   25)
* InnoDB, crash recovery:                innodb-recovery.    (line   50)
* InnoDB, crash recovery <1>:            innodb-recovery.    (line   82)
* InnoDB, creating tables:               using-innodb-tables.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, data files:                    innodb-system-tablespace.
                                                             (line   27)
* InnoDB, deadlock detection:            innodb-deadlock-detection.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, deadlock example:              innodb-deadlock-example.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, deadlocks:                     converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  131)
* InnoDB, deadlocks <1>:                 innodb-deadlocks.   (line   12)
* InnoDB, deadlocks <2>:                 innodb-deadlocks-handling.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, disk failure:                  innodb-recovery.    (line   25)
* InnoDB, disk I/O:                      innodb-disk-io.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, disk I/O optimization:         optimizing-innodb-diskio.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, DYNAMIC row format:            innodb-row-format.  (line  289)
* InnoDB, DYNAMIC row format <1>:        innodb-row-format.  (line  322)
* InnoDB, exclusive lock:                innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, file space management:         innodb-file-space.  (line    6)
* InnoDB, file-per-table tablespace:     innodb-file-per-table-tablespaces.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, files:                         converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  346)
* InnoDB, gap lock:                      innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, gap lock <1>:                  innodb-next-key-locking.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, gap lock <2>:                  innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* InnoDB, in-memory structures:          innodb-in-memory-structures.
                                                             (line   13)
* InnoDB, index-record lock:             innodb-next-key-locking.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, index-record lock <1>:         innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* InnoDB, insert-intention lock:         innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, intention lock:                innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, limitations:                   innodb-restrictions-limitations.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, limits:                        innodb-limits.      (line    6)
* InnoDB, Linux:                         innodb-linux-native-aio.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, lock modes:                    innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, locking:                       innodb-locking-transaction-model.
                                                             (line   14)
* InnoDB, locking <1>:                   innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, locking <2>:                   innodb-locks-set.   (line    6)
* InnoDB, locking reads:                 innodb-locking-reads.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, log files:                     innodb-redo-log.    (line   28)
* InnoDB, memory usage:                  converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line   35)
* InnoDB, migrating tables:              innodb-migration.   (line    6)
* InnoDB, Monitors:                      innodb-file-space.  (line   60)
* InnoDB, Monitors <1>:                  innodb-recovery.    (line   32)
* InnoDB, Monitors <2>:                  innodb-troubleshooting.
                                                             (line   40)
* InnoDB, multi-versioning:              innodb-multi-versioning.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, next-key lock:                 innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, next-key lock <1>:             innodb-next-key-locking.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, next-key lock <2>:             innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* InnoDB, NFS:                           innodb-init-startup-configuration.
                                                             (line   85)
* InnoDB, on-disk structures:            innodb-on-disk-structures.
                                                             (line   17)
* InnoDB, page size:                     innodb-physical-structure.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, physical index structure:      innodb-physical-structure.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, point-in-time recovery:        innodb-recovery.    (line   16)
* InnoDB, primary keys:                  using-innodb-tables.
                                                             (line   82)
* InnoDB, primary keys <1>:              converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  262)
* InnoDB, raw partitions:                innodb-system-tablespace.
                                                             (line  135)
* InnoDB, record-level locks:            innodb-next-key-locking.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, record-level locks <1>:        innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* InnoDB, recovery:                      innodb-recovery.    (line    6)
* InnoDB, redo log:                      innodb-redo-log.    (line    6)
* InnoDB, REDUNDANT row format:          innodb-row-format.  (line   99)
* InnoDB, replication:                   innodb-and-mysql-replication.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, restrictions:                  innodb-restrictions-limitations.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, row format:                    using-innodb-tables.
                                                             (line   62)
* InnoDB, row format <1>:                innodb-row-format.  (line  351)
* InnoDB, secondary index:               innodb-index-types. (line    6)
* InnoDB, semi-consistent read:          innodb-parameters.  (line 1546)
* InnoDB, shared lock:                   innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* InnoDB, Solaris issues:                solaris-installation.
                                                             (line   10)
* InnoDB, storage:                       converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  238)
* InnoDB, storage layout:                converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  156)
* InnoDB, system variables:              innodb-parameters.  (line    6)
* InnoDB, table properties:              using-innodb-tables.
                                                             (line  119)
* InnoDB, tables:                        innodb-tables.      (line   13)
* InnoDB, tables, converting from other storage engines: converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, transaction model:             innodb-locking-transaction-model.
                                                             (line   14)
* InnoDB, transaction model <1>:         innodb-transaction-model.
                                                             (line   13)
* InnoDB, transactions:                  converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line   51)
* InnoDB, transferring data:             converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line  203)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting:               innodb-troubleshooting.
                                                             (line   13)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, CREATE TABLE failure: innodb-troubleshooting-datadict.
                                                             (line   17)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, data dictionary problems: innodb-troubleshooting-datadict.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, deadlocks:    innodb-deadlocks.   (line   12)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, deadlocks <1>: innodb-deadlock-detection.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, defragmenting tables: innodb-file-defragmenting.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, fast index creation: innodb-create-index-limitations.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, I/O problems: error-creating-innodb.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, open file error: innodb-troubleshooting-datadict.
                                                             (line   46)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, orphan temporary tables: innodb-troubleshooting-datadict.
                                                             (line   64)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, performance problems: optimizing-innodb.
                                                             (line   18)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, recovery problems: forcing-innodb-recovery.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, SQL errors:   innodb-error-handling.
                                                             (line    6)
* InnoDB, troubleshooting, tablespace does not exist: innodb-troubleshooting-datadict.
                                                             (line  100)
* innodb-status-file option, mysqld:     innodb-parameters.  (line  310)
* innodb_ system variable, innodb_rollback_segments: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2289)
* innodb_adaptive_flushing system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  372)
* innodb_adaptive_hash_index system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  397)
* innodb_adaptive_hash_index, and innodb_thread_concurrency: innodb-performance-thread_concurrency.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_additional_mem_pool_size system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  438)
* innodb_additional_mem_pool_size system variable, and innodb_use_sys_malloc: innodb-performance-use_sys_malloc.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_autoextend_increment system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  471)
* innodb_autoinc_lock_mode:              glossary.           (line 1567)
* innodb_autoinc_lock_mode system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  505)
* INNODB_BUFFER_PAGE, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-buffer-page-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* INNODB_BUFFER_PAGE_LRU, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-buffer-page-lru-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_buffer_pool_instances system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  531)
* innodb_buffer_pool_size system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  573)
* INNODB_BUFFER_POOL_STATS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-buffer-pool-stats-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_change_buffering:               innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line   48)
* innodb_change_buffering system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  632)
* innodb_change_buffering_debug:         innodb-parameters.  (line  690)
* innodb_checksums system variable:      innodb-parameters.  (line  717)
* INNODB_CMP, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:  innodb-cmp-table.   (line    6)
* INNODB_CMPMEM, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-cmpmem-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* INNODB_CMPMEM_RESET, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-cmpmem-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* INNODB_CMP_RESET, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-cmp-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_commit_concurrency system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  741)
* innodb_concurrency_tickets:            innodb-performance-thread_concurrency.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_concurrency_tickets system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line  771)
* innodb_data_file_path system variable: innodb-parameters.  (line  832)
* innodb_data_home_dir system variable:  innodb-parameters.  (line  872)
* innodb_doublewrite system variable:    innodb-parameters.  (line  904)
* innodb_fast_shutdown system variable:  innodb-parameters.  (line  930)
* innodb_file_format:                    innodb-file-format. (line   13)
* innodb_file_format <1>:                glossary.           (line 1587)
* innodb_file_format system variable:    innodb-parameters.  (line  968)
* innodb_file_format, Antelope:          innodb-compression-internals.
                                                             (line  116)
* innodb_file_format, Barracuda:         innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_file_format, downgrading:       innodb-downgrading. (line    6)
* innodb_file_format, identifying:       innodb-file-format-identifying.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_file_format_check:              innodb-file-format-compatibility-checking.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_file_format_check system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1011)
* innodb_file_format_max system variable: innodb-parameters. (line 1066)
* innodb_file_io_threads:                innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_file_per_table:                 innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_file_per_table <1>:             glossary.           (line 1591)
* innodb_file_per_table system variable: innodb-parameters.  (line 1096)
* innodb_flush_log_at_trx_commit system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1148)
* innodb_flush_method system variable:   innodb-parameters.  (line 1222)
* innodb_force_load_corrupted system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1316)
* innodb_force_recovery system variable: innodb-parameters.  (line 1341)
* innodb_io_capacity:                    innodb-configuring-io-capacity.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_io_capacity system variable:    innodb-parameters.  (line 1376)
* innodb_large_prefix system variable:   innodb-parameters.  (line 1410)
* innodb_limit_optimistic_insert_debug:  innodb-parameters.  (line 1443)
* INNODB_LOCKS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-locks-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_locks_unsafe_for_binlog system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1528)
* INNODB_LOCK_WAITS, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: innodb-lock-waits-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_lock_wait_timeout:              glossary.           (line 1610)
* innodb_lock_wait_timeout system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1470)
* innodb_log_buffer_size system variable: innodb-parameters. (line 1698)
* innodb_log_files_in_group system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1772)
* innodb_log_file_size system variable:  innodb-parameters.  (line 1730)
* innodb_log_group_home_dir system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1802)
* innodb_max_dirty_pages_pct system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1828)
* innodb_max_purge_lag system variable:  innodb-parameters.  (line 1858)
* innodb_mirrored_log_groups system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 1888)
* innodb_old_blocks_pct:                 innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_old_blocks_pct system variable: innodb-parameters.  (line 1893)
* innodb_old_blocks_time:                innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_old_blocks_time system variable: innodb-parameters. (line 1924)
* innodb_open_files system variable:     innodb-parameters.  (line 1969)
* innodb_print_all_deadlocks system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2001)
* innodb_print_all_deadlocks system variable, innodb_print_all_deadlocks: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2002)
* innodb_purge_batch_size system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2038)
* innodb_purge_threads system variable:  innodb-parameters.  (line 2074)
* innodb_random_read_ahead system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2105)
* innodb_read_ahead_threshold:           innodb-performance-read_ahead.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_read_ahead_threshold system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2138)
* innodb_read_io_threads:                innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_read_io_threads system variable: innodb-parameters. (line 2192)
* innodb_replication_delay system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2229)
* innodb_rollback_on_timeout system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2254)
* innodb_rollback_segments system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2288)
* innodb_spin_wait_delay:                innodb-performance-spin_lock_polling.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_spin_wait_delay system variable: innodb-parameters. (line 2330)
* innodb_stats_method system variable:   innodb-parameters.  (line 2362)
* innodb_stats_on_metadata system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2397)
* innodb_stats_sample_pages:             innodb-statistics-estimation.
                                                             (line   10)
* innodb_stats_sample_pages system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2437)
* innodb_strict_mode:                    column-count-limit. (line   42)
* innodb_strict_mode <1>:                glossary.           (line 1618)
* innodb_strict_mode system variable:    innodb-parameters.  (line 2469)
* innodb_support_xa system variable:     innodb-parameters.  (line 2530)
* innodb_sync_spin_loops system variable: innodb-parameters. (line 2570)
* innodb_table_locks system variable:    innodb-parameters.  (line 2595)
* innodb_thread_concurrency:             innodb-performance-thread_concurrency.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_thread_concurrency system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2630)
* innodb_thread_sleep_delay:             innodb-performance-thread_concurrency.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_thread_sleep_delay system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2732)
* INNODB_TRX, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table:  innodb-trx-table.   (line    6)
* innodb_trx_purge_view_update_only_debug: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2821)
* innodb_trx_rseg_n_slots_debug:         innodb-parameters.  (line 2845)
* innodb_use_native_aio:                 innodb-linux-native-aio.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_use_native_aio system variable: innodb-parameters.  (line 2770)
* innodb_use_sys_malloc system variable: innodb-performance-use_sys_malloc.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_use_sys_malloc system variable <1>: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2871)
* innodb_use_sys_malloc, and innodb_thread_concurrency: innodb-performance-thread_concurrency.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_version system variable:        innodb-parameters.  (line 2893)
* innodb_write_io_threads:               innodb-performance-multiple_io_threads.
                                                             (line    6)
* innodb_write_io_threads system variable: innodb-parameters.
                                                             (line 2900)
* INOUT parameter, condition handling:   conditions-and-parameters.
                                                             (line    6)
* INSERT:                                insert-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* INSERT <1>:                            insert.             (line   12)
* insert:                                glossary.           (line 1622)
* INSERT ... SELECT:                     insert-select.      (line    6)
* insert buffer:                         glossary.           (line 1630)
* insert buffering:                      glossary.           (line 1636)
* insert buffering, disabling:           innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line   48)
* INSERT DELAYED:                        insert-delayed.     (line    6)
* INSERT DELAYED <1>:                    insert-delayed.     (line    6)
* insert intention lock:                 glossary.           (line 1647)
* INSERT privilege:                      privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  260)
* INSERT():                              string-functions.   (line  406)
* insert, thread state:                  delayed-insert-thread-states.
                                                             (line   81)
* insert-ignore option, mysqldump:       mysqldump.          (line  899)
* insert-intention lock:                 innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* insertable views, insertable:          view-updatability.  (line    6)
* inserting, speed of:                   insert-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* inserts, concurrent:                   internal-locking.   (line  103)
* inserts, concurrent <1>:               concurrent-inserts. (line    6)
* insert_id system variable:             server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1888)
* install option (ndbd):                 mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  323)
* install option (ndbmtd):               mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  324)
* install option (ndb_mgmd):             mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  317)
* install option, mysqld:                server-options.     (line  625)
* install option, MySQLInstallerConsole: MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line   82)
* INSTALL PLUGIN statement:              install-plugin.     (line    6)
* install-manual option, mysqld:         server-options.     (line  645)
* Installation:                          MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line    6)
* installation layouts:                  installation-layouts.
                                                             (line    6)
* installation overview:                 source-installation.
                                                             (line   18)
* installing NDB Cluster:                mysql-cluster-installation.
                                                             (line   16)
* installing NDB Cluster, Debian Linux:  mysql-cluster-install-debian.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing NDB Cluster, Linux:         mysql-cluster-install-linux.
                                                             (line   13)
* installing NDB Cluster, Linux binary release: mysql-cluster-install-linux-binary.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing NDB Cluster, Linux RPM:     mysql-cluster-install-linux-rpm.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing NDB Cluster, Linux source release: mysql-cluster-install-linux-source.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing NDB Cluster, Ubuntu Linux:  mysql-cluster-install-debian.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing NDB Cluster, Windows:       mysql-cluster-install-windows.
                                                             (line   13)
* installing NDB Cluster, Windows binary release: mysql-cluster-install-windows-binary.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing NDB Cluster, Windows source: mysql-cluster-install-windows-source.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing plugins:                    plugin-loading.     (line    6)
* installing plugins <1>:                install-plugin.     (line    6)
* installing UDFs:                       udf-loading.        (line    6)
* installing, binary distribution:       binary-installation.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing, Linux RPM packages:        linux-installation-rpm.
                                                             (line    6)
* installing, OS X DMG packages:         osx-installation.   (line   13)
* installing, overview:                  installing.         (line   22)
* installing, Perl:                      perl-support.       (line   12)
* installing, Perl on Windows:           activestate-perl.   (line    6)
* installing, Solaris PKG packages:      solaris-installation.
                                                             (line   10)
* installing, source distribution:       source-installation.
                                                             (line   18)
* installing, user-defined functions:    adding-udf.         (line  554)
* INSTALL_BINDIR option, CMake:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  355)
* INSTALL_DOCDIR option, CMake:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  360)
* INSTALL_DOCREADMEDIR option, CMake:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  365)
* INSTALL_INCLUDEDIR option, CMake:      source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  370)
* INSTALL_INFODIR option, CMake:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  375)
* INSTALL_LAYOUT option, CMake:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  380)
* INSTALL_LIBDIR option, CMake:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  399)
* INSTALL_MANDIR option, CMake:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  404)
* INSTALL_MYSQLSHAREDIR option, CMake:   source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  409)
* INSTALL_MYSQLTESTDIR option, CMake:    source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  414)
* INSTALL_PLUGINDIR option, CMake:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  421)
* INSTALL_SBINDIR option, CMake:         source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  429)
* INSTALL_SCRIPTDIR option, CMake:       source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  434)
* INSTALL_SECURE_FILE_PRIVDIR option, CMake: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  439)
* INSTALL_SECURE_FILE_PRIV_EMBEDDEDDIR option, CMake: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  452)
* INSTALL_SHAREDIR option, CMake:        source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  459)
* INSTALL_SQLBENCHDIR option, CMake:     source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  464)
* INSTALL_SUPPORTFILESDIR option, CMake: source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  471)
* instance:                              glossary.           (line 1654)
* INSTR():                               string-functions.   (line  425)
* instrumentation:                       glossary.           (line 1662)
* INT data type:                         numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  119)
* integer arithmetic:                    precision-math.     (line   14)
* INTEGER data type:                     numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  125)
* integers:                              number-literals.    (line    6)
* intention lock:                        innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* intention lock <1>:                    glossary.           (line 1667)
* interactive option (ndb_mgmd):         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  352)
* interactive_timeout system variable:   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1895)
* InteriorRingN():                       gis-polygon-property-functions.
                                                             (line   69)
* internal locking:                      internal-locking.   (line    6)
* internal memory allocator, disabling:  innodb-performance-use_sys_malloc.
                                                             (line    6)
* internal storage format, geometry values: gis-data-formats.
                                                             (line  142)
* internals:                             mysql-internals.    (line   11)
* Intersects():                          spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line  108)
* interval syntax:                       expressions.        (line  142)
* INTERVAL():                            comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  321)
* INTERVAL, temporal interval syntax:    expressions.        (line  142)
* INTO, SELECT:                          select-into.        (line    6)
* introducer, binary character set:      charset-binary-set. (line   60)
* introducer, bit-value literal:         bit-value-literals. (line   41)
* introducer, character set:             charset-introducer. (line    6)
* introducer, hexadecimal literal:       hexadecimal-literals.
                                                             (line   61)
* introducer, string literal:            string-literals.    (line   39)
* introducer, string literal <1>:        charset-literal.    (line   16)
* invalid data, constraint:              constraint-invalid-data.
                                                             (line    6)
* invalidating query cache entries, thread state: query-cache-thread-states.
                                                             (line   21)
* inverted index:                        glossary.           (line 1680)
* invisible index:                       create-function.    (line   12)
* INVOKER privileges:                    show-grants.        (line   42)
* INVOKER privileges <1>:                stored-objects-security.
                                                             (line    6)
* in_file option, comp_err:              comp-err.           (line   54)
* IOPS:                                  glossary.           (line 1687)
* IP addresses, in account names:        account-names.      (line    6)
* IP addresses, in default accounts:     default-privileges. (line    6)
* IPv6 addresses, in account names:      account-names.      (line    6)
* IPv6 addresses, in default accounts:   default-privileges. (line    6)
* IPv6 connections:                      default-privileges. (line   36)
* IPv6 connections <1>:                  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 5398)
* IS boolean_value:                      comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  337)
* IS NOT boolean_value:                  comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  346)
* IS NOT DISTINCT FROM operator:         comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  116)
* IS NOT NULL:                           comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  401)
* IS NULL:                               is-null-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* IS NULL <1>:                           comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  355)
* IS NULL, and indexes:                  index-btree-hash.   (line   43)
* IsClosed():                            gis-linestring-property-functions.
                                                             (line   56)
* IsEmpty():                             gis-general-property-functions.
                                                             (line   52)
* ISNULL():                              comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  408)
* ISOLATION LEVEL:                       set-transaction.    (line    6)
* isolation level:                       innodb-transaction-isolation-levels.
                                                             (line    6)
* isolation level <1>:                   glossary.           (line 1705)
* IsSimple():                            gis-general-property-functions.
                                                             (line   59)
* IS_FREE_LOCK():                        locking-functions.  (line   84)
* IS_USED_LOCK():                        locking-functions.  (line   96)
* ITERATE:                               iterate.            (line    6)
* iterations option, mysqlslap:          mysqlslap.          (line  423)
* Japanese character sets, conversion:   faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* Japanese, Korean, Chinese character sets, frequently asked questions: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* Java:                                  connector-j-info.   (line    6)
* JDBC:                                  connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* jdbc:mysql:loadbalance://:             mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line  114)
* JOIN:                                  join.               (line    6)
* join:                                  glossary.           (line 1726)
* join algorithm, Block Nested-Loop:     nested-loop-joins.  (line    6)
* join algorithm, Nested-Loop:           nested-loop-joins.  (line    6)
* join option, myisampack:               myisampack.         (line   87)
* join type, ALL:                        explain-output.     (line  426)
* join type, const:                      explain-output.     (line  271)
* join type, eq_ref:                     explain-output.     (line  289)
* join type, fulltext:                   explain-output.     (line  334)
* join type, index:                      explain-output.     (line  406)
* join type, index_merge:                explain-output.     (line  353)
* join type, index_subquery:             explain-output.     (line  373)
* join type, range:                      explain-output.     (line  382)
* join type, ref:                        explain-output.     (line  311)
* join type, ref_or_null:                explain-output.     (line  339)
* join type, system:                     explain-output.     (line  265)
* join type, unique_subquery:            explain-output.     (line  362)
* join, nested-loop algorithm:           nested-join-optimization.
                                                             (line  163)
* joins, USING versus ON:                join.               (line  307)
* join_buffer_size system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 1921)
* keepold option, mysqlhotcopy:          mysqlhotcopy.       (line  153)
* keep_files_on_create system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2010)
* key cache, assigning indexes to:       cache-index.        (line    6)
* Key cache, MyISAM:                     myisam-key-cache.   (line   15)
* key partitioning:                      partitioning-key.   (line    6)
* key partitions, managing:              partitioning-management-hash-key.
                                                             (line    6)
* key partitions, splitting and merging: partitioning-management-hash-key.
                                                             (line    6)
* key space, MyISAM:                     key-space.          (line    6)
* key-value store:                       index-btree-hash.   (line   85)
* keys:                                  column-indexes.     (line    6)
* keys option, mysqlshow:                mysqlshow.          (line  253)
* keys, foreign:                         ansi-diff-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* keys, foreign <1>:                     example-foreign-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* keys, multi-column:                    multiple-column-indexes.
                                                             (line    6)
* keys, searching on two:                searching-on-two-keys.
                                                             (line    6)
* keys-used option, myisamchk:           myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   52)
* keywords:                              keywords.           (line    6)
* KEY_BLOCK_SIZE:                        innodb-compression-usage.
                                                             (line    6)
* KEY_BLOCK_SIZE <1>:                    innodb-compression-tuning.
                                                             (line  227)
* KEY_BLOCK_SIZE <2>:                    glossary.           (line 1735)
* key_buffer_size myisamchk variable:    myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* key_buffer_size system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2043)
* key_cache_age_threshold system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2128)
* key_cache_block_size system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2164)
* key_cache_division_limit system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2189)
* KEY_COLUMN_USAGE, INFORMATION_SCHEMA table: key-column-usage-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* KILL statement:                        kill.               (line    6)
* Kill, thread command:                  thread-commands.    (line   84)
* Killed, thread state:                  general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  177)
* Killing slave, thread state:           slave-connection-thread-states.
                                                             (line   15)
* known errors:                          known-issues.       (line    6)
* Korean:                                faqs-cjk.           (line    6)
* Korean, Chinese, Japanese character sets, frequently asked questions: faqs-cjk.
                                                             (line    6)
* labels, stored program block:          statement-labels.   (line    6)
* language option, mysqld:               server-options.     (line  666)
* language support, error messages:      error-message-language.
                                                             (line    6)
* language system variable:              server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2216)
* lap option, ndb_redo_log_reader:       mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-redo-log-reader.
                                                             (line  142)
* large page support:                    large-page-support. (line    6)
* large tables, NDB Cluster:             create-table.       (line  919)
* large-pages option, mysqld:            server-options.     (line  695)
* large_files_support system variable:   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2244)
* large_pages system variable:           server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2258)
* large_page_size system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2281)
* last row, unique ID:                   getting-unique-id.  (line    6)
* LAST_DAY():                            date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  683)
* last_insert_id system variable:        server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2301)
* LAST_INSERT_ID():                      information-functions.
                                                             (line  347)
* LAST_INSERT_ID() <1>:                  insert.             (line  229)
* LAST_INSERT_ID() <2>:                  getting-unique-id.  (line    6)
* LAST_INSERT_ID(), and replication:     replication-features-auto-increment.
                                                             (line    6)
* LAST_INSERT_ID(), and stored routines: stored-routines-last-insert-id.
                                                             (line    6)
* LAST_INSERT_ID(), and triggers:        stored-routines-last-insert-id.
                                                             (line    6)
* latch:                                 glossary.           (line 1748)
* LateAlloc:                             mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1897)
* layout of installation:                installation-layouts.
                                                             (line    6)
* lc-messages option, mysqld:            server-options.     (line  729)
* lc-messages-dir option, mysqld:        server-options.     (line  752)
* LCASE():                               string-functions.   (line  440)
* LcpScanProgressTimeout:                mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1545)
* lc_messages system variable:           server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2310)
* lc_messages_dir system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2333)
* lc_time_names system variable:         server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2354)
* ldata option, mysql_install_db:        mysql-install-db.   (line  146)
* LDML syntax:                           ldml-rules.         (line    6)
* LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable:  perl-support-problems.
                                                             (line   21)
* LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable <1>: c-api-running-clients.
                                                             (line   33)
* LD_RUN_PATH environment variable:      perl-support-problems.
                                                             (line   20)
* LD_RUN_PATH environment variable <1>:  environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* LEAST():                               comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  426)
* LEAVE:                                 leave.              (line    6)
* ledir option, mysqld_safe:             mysqld-safe.        (line  157)
* LEFT JOIN:                             outer-join-optimization.
                                                             (line    6)
* LEFT JOIN <1>:                         join.               (line    6)
* LEFT OUTER JOIN:                       join.               (line    6)
* LEFT():                                string-functions.   (line  445)
* leftmost prefix of indexes:            mysql-indexes.      (line   31)
* leftmost prefix of indexes <1>:        multiple-column-indexes.
                                                             (line   84)
* legal names:                           identifiers.        (line   14)
* length option, myisam_ftdump:          myisam-ftdump.      (line   79)
* LENGTH():                              string-functions.   (line  456)
* less than (<):                         comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  158)
* less than or equal (<=):               comparison-operators.
                                                             (line  146)
* libaio:                                binary-installation.
                                                             (line   40)
* libaio <1>:                            linux-installation-debian.
                                                             (line   39)
* libaio <2>:                            source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  669)
* libaio <3>:                            upgrading-from-previous-series.
                                                             (line   72)
* libmysql, FAQ:                         faqs-c-api.         (line    6)
* libmysqlclient library:                connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* libmysqld:                             libmysqld.          (line   13)
* libmysqld library:                     connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* libmysqld, options:                    libmysqld-options.  (line    6)
* libmysqld-libs option, mysql_config:   mysql-config.       (line   28)
* LIBMYSQL_ENABLE_CLEARTEXT_PLUGIN environment variable: environment-variables.
                                                             (line   16)
* LIBMYSQL_PLUGINS environment variable: mysql-load-plugin.  (line   34)
* library, libmysqlclient:               connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* library, libmysqld:                    connectors-apis.    (line   22)
* libs option, mysql_config:             mysql-config.       (line   34)
* libs_r option, mysql_config:           mysql-config.       (line   40)
* license system variable:               server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2378)
* LIKE:                                  string-comparison-functions.
                                                             (line   23)
* LIKE, and indexes:                     index-btree-hash.   (line   17)
* LIKE, and wildcards:                   index-btree-hash.   (line   17)
* LIMIT:                                 information-functions.
                                                             (line  264)
* LIMIT <1>:                             select.             (line  298)
* LIMIT, and replication:                replication-features-limit.
                                                             (line    6)
* LIMIT, optimizations:                  limit-optimization. (line    6)
* limitations of NDB Cluster:            mysql-cluster-limitations.
                                                             (line   20)
* limitations, InnoDB:                   innodb-restrictions-limitations.
                                                             (line    6)
* limitations, replication:              replication-features.
                                                             (line   47)
* limits, file-size:                     table-size-limit.   (line    6)
* limits, InnoDB:                        innodb-limits.      (line    6)
* limits, maximum columns per table:     column-count-limit. (line   15)
* limits, maximum number of databases:   database-count-limit.
                                                             (line    6)
* limits, maximum number of databases <1>: create-database.  (line   44)
* limits, maximum number of tables:      database-count-limit.
                                                             (line    6)
* limits, maximum number of tables <1>:  create-table.       (line  157)
* limits, maximum row size:              column-count-limit. (line   42)
* limits, maximum tables per join:       join.               (line  106)
* limits, maximum tables per view:       view-restrictions.  (line    6)
* limits, table size:                    table-size-limit.   (line    6)
* line-numbers option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  471)
* linear hash partitioning:              partitioning-linear-hash.
                                                             (line    6)
* linear key partitioning:               partitioning-key.   (line  101)
* linefeed (\n):                         string-literals.    (line   86)
* linefeed (\n) <1>:                     load-data.          (line  445)
* LineFromText():                        gis-wkt-functions.  (line   29)
* LineFromWKB():                         gis-wkb-functions.  (line   35)
* lines-terminated-by option, mysqldump: mysqldump.          (line  905)
* lines-terminated-by option, mysqldump <1>: mysqlimport.    (line  316)
* lines-terminated-by option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  794)
* LINESTRING data type:                  spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* LineString():                          gis-mysql-specific-functions.
                                                             (line   30)
* LineStringFromText():                  gis-wkt-functions.  (line   30)
* LineStringFromWKB():                   gis-wkb-functions.  (line   36)
* linking:                               c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line    6)
* linking, errors:                       c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line  155)
* linking, problems:                     c-api-building-clients.
                                                             (line  155)
* links, symbolic:                       symbolic-links.     (line   12)
* list:                                  glossary.           (line 1756)
* list option, MySQLInstallerConsole:    MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line  156)
* list partitioning:                     partitioning-list.  (line    6)
* list partitioning <1>:                 partitioning-columns.
                                                             (line   11)
* list partitions, adding and dropping:  partitioning-management-range-list.
                                                             (line    6)
* list partitions, managing:             partitioning-management-range-list.
                                                             (line    6)
* literals:                              literals.           (line   16)
* literals, bit value:                   bit-value-literals. (line    6)
* literals, boolean:                     boolean-literals.   (line    6)
* literals, date:                        date-and-time-literals.
                                                             (line    6)
* literals, hexadecimal:                 hexadecimal-literals.
                                                             (line    6)
* literals, numeric:                     number-literals.    (line    6)
* literals, string:                      string-literals.    (line    6)
* literals, time:                        date-and-time-literals.
                                                             (line    6)
* LN():                                  mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  279)
* LOAD DATA:                             load-data.          (line    6)
* LOAD DATA <1>:                         problems-with-null. (line   51)
* LOAD DATA, and replication:            replication-features-load-data.
                                                             (line    6)
* load emulation:                        mysqlslap.          (line    6)
* LOAD INDEX INTO CACHE, and partitioning: partitioning-limitations.
                                                             (line  294)
* LOAD XML:                              load-xml.           (line    6)
* loading, tables:                       loading-tables.     (line    6)
* LOAD_FILE():                           string-functions.   (line  473)
* local option, mysqlimport:             mysqlimport.        (line  326)
* local-infile option, mysql:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  477)
* local-load option, mysqlbinlog:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  482)
* local-service option, mysqld:          server-options.     (line  773)
* localhost, special treatment of:       connecting.         (line  104)
* LOCALTIME:                             date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  699)
* LOCALTIMESTAMP:                        date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  704)
* local_infile system variable:          server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2395)
* LOCATE():                              string-functions.   (line  493)
* lock:                                  glossary.           (line 1764)
* lock escalation:                       glossary.           (line 1770)
* LOCK IN SHARE MODE:                    select.             (line  368)
* lock mode:                             glossary.           (line 1776)
* Lock Monitor:                          innodb-monitor-types.
                                                             (line    6)
* Lock Monitor <1>:                      innodb-standard-monitor.
                                                             (line    6)
* lock option, ndb_select_all:           mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-select-all.
                                                             (line   98)
* LOCK TABLES:                           lock-tables.        (line    6)
* LOCK TABLES privilege:                 privileges-provided.
                                                             (line  267)
* lock-all-tables option, mysqldump:     mysqldump.          (line  912)
* lock-tables option, mysqldump:         mysqldump.          (line  920)
* lock-tables option, mysqlimport:       mysqlimport.        (line  334)
* locked_in_memory system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2477)
* LockExecuteThreadToCPU:                mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3851)
* locking:                               system-optimization.
                                                             (line    8)
* locking <1>:                           innodb-locking-transaction-model.
                                                             (line   14)
* locking <2>:                           glossary.           (line 1795)
* locking functions:                     locking-functions.  (line    6)
* locking methods:                       internal-locking.   (line    6)
* locking read:                          glossary.           (line 1803)
* locking, external:                     server-options.     (line  550)
* locking, external <1>:                 server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 5339)
* locking, external <2>:                 myisam-crash-recovery.
                                                             (line    6)
* locking, external <3>:                 external-locking.   (line    6)
* locking, external <4>:                 general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  360)
* locking, information schema:           innodb-information-schema.
                                                             (line   12)
* locking, information schema <1>:       innodb-information-schema-transactions.
                                                             (line   12)
* locking, InnoDB:                       innodb-locking.     (line    6)
* locking, internal:                     internal-locking.   (line    6)
* locking, metadata:                     metadata-locking.   (line    6)
* locking, row-level:                    internal-locking.   (line    6)
* locking, table-level:                  internal-locking.   (line    6)
* LockMaintThreadsToCPU:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3886)
* LockPagesInMainMemory:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1918)
* lock_wait_timeout system variable:     server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2425)
* log:                                   glossary.           (line 1816)
* log buffer:                            glossary.           (line 1827)
* log file:                              glossary.           (line 1831)
* log files (NDB Cluster):               mysql-cluster-programs-ndbd.
                                                             (line  467)
* log files (NDB Cluster), ndbmtd:       mysql-cluster-programs-ndbmtd.
                                                             (line   64)
* log files, maintaining:                log-file-maintenance.
                                                             (line    6)
* log group:                             glossary.           (line 1834)
* log option, mysqld:                    server-options.     (line  788)
* log option, mysqld_multi:              mysqld-multi.       (line  109)
* log system variable:                   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2491)
* LOG():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  293)
* log-bin option, mysqld:                replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line   55)
* log-bin-index option, mysqld:          replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line   88)
* log-error option, mysqld:              server-options.     (line  819)
* log-error option, mysqldump:           mysqldump.          (line  939)
* log-error option, mysqld_safe:         mysqld-safe.        (line  167)
* log-isam option, mysqld:               server-options.     (line  852)
* log-long-format option, mysqld:        server-options.     (line  865)
* log-name option (ndb_mgmd):            mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  370)
* log-short-format option, mysqld:       server-options.     (line  884)
* log-slow-admin-statements option, mysqld: server-options.  (line  899)
* log-slow-slave-statements option, mysqld: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line   84)
* log-tc option, mysqld:                 server-options.     (line  918)
* log-tc-size option, mysqld:            server-options.     (line  936)
* log-warnings option, mysqld:           server-options.     (line  962)
* log-warnings option, mysqld <1>:       replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  104)
* LOG10():                               mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  335)
* LOG2():                                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  321)
* logbuffers, ndbinfo table:             mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-logbuffers.
                                                             (line    6)
* LogDestination:                        mysql-cluster-mgm-definition.
                                                             (line  176)
* logging commands (NDB Cluster):        mysql-cluster-logging-management-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* logging slow query, thread state:      general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  187)
* logging, passwords:                    password-logging.   (line    6)
* logical:                               glossary.           (line 1838)
* logical backup:                        glossary.           (line 1844)
* logical operators:                     logical-operators.  (line    6)
* login, thread state:                   general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  192)
* LogLevelCheckpoint:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3414)
* LogLevelCongestion:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3506)
* LogLevelConnection:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3459)
* LogLevelError:                         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3482)
* LogLevelInfo:                          mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3530)
* LogLevelNodeRestart:                   mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3437)
* LogLevelShutdown:                      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3367)
* LogLevelStartup:                       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3344)
* LogLevelStatistic:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3390)
* logs, and TIMESTAMP:                   upgrading-from-previous-series.
                                                             (line  263)
* logs, flushing:                        server-logs.        (line   44)
* logs, server:                          server-logs.        (line   16)
* logspaces, ndbinfo table:              mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-logspaces.
                                                             (line    6)
* log_bin system variable:               replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  621)
* log_bin_trust_function_creators system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  642)
* log_bin_trust_routine_creators system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  673)
* log_bin_use_v1_row_events system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  679)
* log_error system variable:             server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2515)
* log_output system variable:            server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2535)
* log_queries_not_using_indexes system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2573)
* log_slave_updates system variable:     replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  739)
* log_slow_queries system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2597)
* log_warnings system variable:          server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2626)
* LONG data type:                        blob.               (line    6)
* Long Data, thread command:             thread-commands.    (line   89)
* LONGBLOB data type:                    string-type-syntax. (line  249)
* LongMessageBuffer:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1162)
* LONGTEXT data type:                    string-type-syntax. (line  259)
* long_query_time system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2665)
* LOOP:                                  loop.               (line    6)
* LOOP, labels:                          statement-labels.   (line    6)
* loops option (ndbinfo_select_all):     mysql-cluster-programs-ndbinfo-select-all.
                                                             (line  102)
* loops option (ndb_index_stat):         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-index-stat.
                                                             (line  434)
* loops option, ndb_show_tables:         mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-show-tables.
                                                             (line   61)
* Loose Index Scan, GROUP BY optimizing: group-by-optimization.
                                                             (line   37)
* loose_:                                glossary.           (line 1853)
* lossy-conversions option, ndb_move_data: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-move-data.
                                                             (line  162)
* lossy-conversions option, ndb_restore: mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-restore.
                                                             (line  809)
* lost connection errors:                error-lost-connection.
                                                             (line    6)
* low-priority option, mysqlimport:      mysqlimport.        (line  340)
* low-water mark:                        glossary.           (line 1860)
* LOWER():                               string-functions.   (line  512)
* lower_case_file_system system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2724)
* lower_case_file_system system variable, GRANT: grant.      (line  391)
* lower_case_table_names system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2743)
* LOW_PRIORITY, DELETE modifier:         delete.             (line   79)
* LOW_PRIORITY, INSERT modifier:         insert.             (line  252)
* LOW_PRIORITY, UPDATE modifier:         update.             (line   66)
* low_priority_updates system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2699)
* LPAD():                                string-functions.   (line  539)
* LRU:                                   glossary.           (line 1864)
* LRU page replacement:                  innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion.
                                                             (line    6)
* LSN:                                   glossary.           (line 1873)
* LTRIM():                               string-functions.   (line  551)
* main features of MySQL:                features.           (line    6)
* maintaining, log files:                log-file-maintenance.
                                                             (line    6)
* maintaining, tables:                   myisam-maintenance-schedule.
                                                             (line    6)
* maintenance, tables:                   mysqlcheck.         (line    6)
* MAKEDATE():                            date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  709)
* MAKETIME():                            date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  722)
* MAKE_SET():                            string-functions.   (line  561)
* Making temp file, thread state:        slave-sql-thread-states.
                                                             (line   20)
* malicious SQL statements, and NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges.
                                                             (line   66)
* manage keys, thread state:             general-thread-states.
                                                             (line  198)
* management client (NDB Cluster):       mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgm.
                                                             (line    6)
* management node (NDB Cluster), defined: mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line    6)
* management nodes (NDB Cluster):        mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line    6)
* managing NDB Cluster:                  mysql-cluster-management.
                                                             (line   25)
* managing NDB Cluster processes:        mysql-cluster-programs.
                                                             (line   36)
* manual, available formats:             manual-info.        (line   31)
* manual, online location:               manual-info.        (line    6)
* manual, syntax conventions:            manual-conventions. (line    8)
* manual, typographical conventions:     manual-conventions. (line    8)
* Master has sent all binlog to slave; waiting for binlog to be updated, thread state: master-thread-states.
                                                             (line   17)
* master server:                         glossary.           (line 1897)
* master thread:                         glossary.           (line 1902)
* master-data option, mysqldump:         mysqldump.          (line  945)
* master-info-file option, mysqld:       replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  150)
* master-retry-count option, mysqld:     replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  167)
* MASTER_POS_WAIT():                     miscellaneous-functions.
                                                             (line   89)
* MASTER_POS_WAIT() <1>:                 master-pos-wait.    (line    6)
* MATCH ... AGAINST():                   fulltext-search.    (line   16)
* matching, patterns:                    pattern-matching.   (line    6)
* math:                                  precision-math.     (line   14)
* mathematical functions:                mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line   84)
* MAX():                                 group-by-functions. (line  244)
* MAX(DISTINCT):                         group-by-functions. (line  245)
* max-allowed-packet option, mysql:      mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  489)
* max-allowed-packet option, mysqldump:  mysqldump.          (line  979)
* max-binlog-dump-events option, mysqld: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  318)
* max-join-size option, mysql:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  494)
* max-record-length option, myisamchk:   myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   70)
* max-relay-log-size option, mysqld:     replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  196)
* MaxAllocate:                           mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1215)
* MaxBufferedEpochBytes:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2814)
* MaxBufferedEpochs:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 2778)
* MAXDB SQL mode:                        sql-mode.           (line  530)
* MaxDMLOperationsPerTransaction:        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  923)
* maximums, maximum columns per table:   column-count-limit. (line   15)
* maximums, maximum number of databases: database-count-limit.
                                                             (line    6)
* maximums, maximum number of databases <1>: create-database.
                                                             (line   44)
* maximums, maximum number of tables:    database-count-limit.
                                                             (line    6)
* maximums, maximum number of tables <1>: create-table.      (line  157)
* maximums, maximum row size:            column-count-limit. (line   42)
* maximums, maximum tables per join:     join.               (line  106)
* maximums, maximum tables per view:     view-restrictions.  (line    6)
* maximums, table size:                  table-size-limit.   (line    6)
* MaxLCPStartDelay:                      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1505)
* MaxNoOfAttributes:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1586)
* MaxNoOfConcurrentIndexOperations:      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  962)
* MaxNoOfConcurrentOperations:           mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  818)
* MaxNoOfConcurrentScans:                mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1072)
* MaxNoOfConcurrentSubOperations:        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1866)
* MaxNoOfConcurrentTransactions:         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  748)
* MaxNoOfExecutionThreads, ndbmtd:       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 4116)
* MaxNoOfFiredTriggers:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  995)
* MaxNoOfIndexes:                        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1788)
* MaxNoOfLocalOperations:                mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  898)
* MaxNoOfLocalScans:                     mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1112)
* MaxNoOfOpenFiles:                      mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1431)
* MaxNoOfOrderedIndexes:                 mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1690)
* MaxNoOfSavedMessages:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1479)
* MaxNoOfSubscribers:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1828)
* MaxNoOfSubscriptions:                  mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1801)
* MaxNoOfTables:                         mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1644)
* MaxNoOfTriggers:                       mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1757)
* MaxNoOfUniqueHashIndexes:              mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1724)
* MaxParallelScansPerFragment:           mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 1186)
* MaxScanBatchSize:                      mysql-cluster-api-definition.
                                                             (line  353)
* MaxStartFailRetries:                   mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 5136)
* max_allowed_packet system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2803)
* max_allowed_packet, and replication:   replication-features-max-allowed-packet.
                                                             (line    6)
* max_binlog_cache_size system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  781)
* max_binlog_size system variable:       replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  845)
* max_binlog_stmt_cache_size system variable: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  880)
* max_connections system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2901)
* MAX_CONNECTIONS_PER_HOUR:              user-resources.     (line    6)
* max_connect_errors system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2856)
* max_delayed_threads system variable:   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2926)
* max_error_count system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2959)
* max_heap_table_size system variable:   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 2985)
* max_insert_delayed_threads system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3029)
* max_join_size system variable:         mysql-tips.         (line   90)
* max_join_size system variable <1>:     server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3044)
* max_length_for_sort_data system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3087)
* max_long_data_size system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3112)
* max_prepared_stmt_count system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3145)
* MAX_QUERIES_PER_HOUR:                  user-resources.     (line    6)
* max_relay_log_size system variable:    server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3177)
* MAX_ROWS, and DataMemory (NDB Cluster): mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  470)
* MAX_ROWS, and NDB Cluster:             partitioning-overview.
                                                             (line  155)
* MAX_ROWS, NDB Cluster:                 create-table.       (line  919)
* max_seeks_for_key system variable:     server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3210)
* max_sort_length system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3258)
* max_sp_recursion_depth system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3290)
* max_tmp_tables system variable:        server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3320)
* MAX_UPDATES_PER_HOUR:                  user-resources.     (line    6)
* MAX_USER_CONNECTIONS:                  user-resources.     (line    6)
* max_user_connections system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3325)
* max_write_lock_count system variable:  server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3367)
* MBR:                                   spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line    6)
* MBRContains():                         spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   14)
* MBRDisjoint():                         spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   30)
* MBREqual():                            spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   36)
* MBRIntersects():                       spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   42)
* MBROverlaps():                         spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   48)
* MBRTouches():                          spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   58)
* MBRWithin():                           spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line   68)
* MD5():                                 encryption-functions.
                                                             (line  317)
* MDL:                                   glossary.           (line 1911)
* medium-check option, myisamchk:        myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   56)
* medium-check option, mysqlcheck:       mysqlcheck.         (line  427)
* MEDIUMBLOB data type:                  string-type-syntax. (line  231)
* MEDIUMINT data type:                   numeric-type-syntax.
                                                             (line  113)
* MEDIUMTEXT data type:                  string-type-syntax. (line  239)
* membership, ndbinfo table:             mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-membership.
                                                             (line    6)
* memcached:                             glossary.           (line 1913)
* MEMCACHED_HOME option, CMake:          source-configuration-options.
                                                             (line  879)
* memlock option, mysqld:                server-options.     (line 1015)
* memory allocation library:             mysqld-safe.        (line  174)
* memory allocator, innodb_use_sys_malloc: innodb-performance-use_sys_malloc.
                                                             (line    6)
* MEMORY storage engine:                 storage-engines.    (line   20)
* MEMORY storage engine <1>:             memory-storage-engine.
                                                             (line    6)
* MEMORY storage engine, and replication: replication-features-memory.
                                                             (line    6)
* MEMORY storage engine, optimization:   column-indexes.     (line   95)
* memory usage, myisamchk:               myisamchk-memory.   (line    6)
* memory use:                            memory-use.         (line    6)
* memory use, in NDB Cluster:            mysql-cluster-limitations-limits.
                                                             (line    9)
* memory use, Performance Schema:        performance-schema-startup-configuration.
                                                             (line   50)
* memoryusage, ndbinfo table:            mysql-cluster-ndbinfo-memoryusage.
                                                             (line    6)
* MemReportFrequency:                    mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line 3553)
* merge:                                 glossary.           (line 1934)
* MERGE storage engine:                  storage-engines.    (line   20)
* MERGE storage engine <1>:              merge-storage-engine.
                                                             (line   11)
* MERGE tables, defined:                 merge-storage-engine.
                                                             (line   11)
* metadata lock:                         glossary.           (line 1940)
* metadata locking:                      metadata-locking.   (line    6)
* metadata log:                          ddl-log.            (line    6)
* metadata, database:                    information-schema. (line   41)
* metadata, database object:             charset-metadata.   (line    6)
* metadata, InnoDB:                      innodb-i_s-tables.  (line   17)
* metadata, stored routines:             stored-routines-metadata.
                                                             (line    6)
* metadata, triggers:                    trigger-metadata.   (line    6)
* metadata, views:                       view-metadata.      (line    6)
* metadata_locks_cache_size system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3416)
* method option, mysqlhotcopy:           mysqlhotcopy.       (line  158)
* methods, locking:                      internal-locking.   (line    6)
* metrics counter:                       glossary.           (line 1951)
* mgmd (NDB Cluster), defined:           mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line    6)
* MICROSECOND():                         date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  731)
* MID():                                 string-functions.   (line  579)
* midpoint insertion:                    innodb-performance-midpoint_insertion.
                                                             (line    6)
* midpoint insertion strategy:           glossary.           (line 1958)
* milestone, MySQL releases:             which-version.      (line   20)
* MIN():                                 group-by-functions. (line  264)
* MIN(DISTINCT):                         group-by-functions. (line  265)
* MinFreePct:                            mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  470)
* MinFreePct <1>:                        mysql-cluster-ndbd-definition.
                                                             (line  705)
* mini-transaction:                      glossary.           (line 1966)
* minimum bounding rectangle:            spatial-relation-functions-mbr.
                                                             (line    6)
* minus, unary (-):                      arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   79)
* MINUTE():                              date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  742)
* min_examined_row_limit system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3448)
* mirror sites:                          getting-mysql.      (line    6)
* miscellaneous functions:               miscellaneous-functions.
                                                             (line    6)
* mixed statements (Replication):        replication-features-transactions.
                                                             (line   36)
* mixed-mode insert:                     glossary.           (line 1975)
* MLineFromText():                       gis-wkt-functions.  (line   35)
* MLineFromWKB():                        gis-wkb-functions.  (line   41)
* MOD (modulo):                          mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  350)
* MOD():                                 mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  349)
* modes, batch:                          batch-mode.         (line    6)
* modify option, MySQLInstallerConsole:  MySQLInstallerConsole.
                                                             (line  165)
* modulo (%):                            mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  350)
* modulo (MOD):                          mathematical-functions.
                                                             (line  350)
* monitor, terminal:                     tutorial.           (line   16)
* monitoring:                            innodb-buffer-pool. (line  118)
* monitoring <1>:                        innodb-change-buffer.
                                                             (line  116)
* monitoring <2>:                        innodb-compression-tuning-monitoring.
                                                             (line    6)
* monitoring <3>:                        monitor-innodb-mutex-waits-performance-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* monitoring <4>:                        mysql-enterprise-monitor.
                                                             (line    6)
* monitoring, threads:                   thread-information. (line   19)
* Monitors:                              innodb-monitors.    (line   14)
* Monitors, enabling:                    innodb-enabling-monitors.
                                                             (line    6)
* Monitors, InnoDB:                      innodb-file-space.  (line   60)
* Monitors, InnoDB <1>:                  innodb-recovery.    (line   32)
* Monitors, InnoDB <2>:                  innodb-troubleshooting.
                                                             (line   41)
* Monitors, output:                      innodb-standard-monitor.
                                                             (line    6)
* MONTH():                               date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  750)
* MONTHNAME():                           date-and-time-functions.
                                                             (line  760)
* MPointFromText():                      gis-wkt-functions.  (line   42)
* MPointFromWKB():                       gis-wkb-functions.  (line   47)
* MPolyFromText():                       gis-wkt-functions.  (line   48)
* MPolyFromWKB():                        gis-wkb-functions.  (line   53)
* mSQL compatibility:                    regexp.             (line   41)
* msql2mysql:                            msql2mysql.         (line    6)
* MSSQL SQL mode:                        sql-mode.           (line  537)
* multi mysqld:                          mysqld-multi.       (line    6)
* multi-column indexes:                  multiple-column-indexes.
                                                             (line    6)
* multi-core:                            glossary.           (line 1994)
* multi-master replication, in NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-replication-multi-master.
                                                             (line    6)
* multi-master replication, in NDB Cluster <1>: mysql-cluster-replication-conflict-resolution.
                                                             (line    6)
* multibyte character sets:              cannot-initialize-character-set.
                                                             (line    6)
* multibyte characters:                  multibyte-characters.
                                                             (line    6)
* MULTILINESTRING data type:             spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* MultiLineString():                     gis-mysql-specific-functions.
                                                             (line   36)
* MultiLineStringFromText():             gis-wkt-functions.  (line   36)
* MultiLineStringFromWKB():              gis-wkb-functions.  (line   42)
* multiple buffer pools:                 innodb-multiple-buffer-pools.
                                                             (line    6)
* multiple servers:                      multiple-servers.   (line   13)
* multiple-part index:                   create-index.       (line    6)
* multiplication (*):                    arithmetic-functions.
                                                             (line   94)
* MULTIPOINT data type:                  spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* MultiPoint():                          gis-mysql-specific-functions.
                                                             (line   41)
* MultiPointFromText():                  gis-wkt-functions.  (line   43)
* MultiPointFromWKB():                   gis-wkb-functions.  (line   48)
* MULTIPOLYGON data type:                spatial-type-overview.
                                                             (line    6)
* MultiPolygon():                        gis-mysql-specific-functions.
                                                             (line   46)
* MultiPolygonFromText():                gis-wkt-functions.  (line   49)
* MultiPolygonFromWKB():                 gis-wkb-functions.  (line   54)
* mutex:                                 glossary.           (line 1997)
* mutex wait, monitoring:                monitor-innodb-mutex-waits-performance-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* mutex_instances table, performance_schema: mutex-instances-table.
                                                             (line    6)
* MVCC:                                  glossary.           (line 2006)
* MVCC (multi-version concurrency control): innodb-multi-versioning.
                                                             (line    6)
* My, derivation:                        history.            (line    6)
* my-print-defaults option, mysql_plugin: mysql-plugin.      (line  117)
* my.cnf:                                glossary.           (line 2018)
* my.cnf option file:                    replication-features.
                                                             (line   47)
* my.cnf, and NDB Cluster:               mysql-cluster-install-configuration.
                                                             (line    6)
* my.cnf, and NDB Cluster <1>:           mysql-cluster-config-file.
                                                             (line   22)
* my.cnf, and NDB Cluster <2>:           mysql-cluster-config-example.
                                                             (line    6)
* my.cnf, in NDB Cluster:                mysql-cluster-mysqld.
                                                             (line   43)
* my.ini:                                glossary.           (line 2020)
* mycnf option, ndb_config:              mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-config.
                                                             (line  322)
* mycnf option, ndb_mgmd:                mysql-cluster-programs-ndb-mgmd.
                                                             (line  385)
* MyISAM key cache:                      myisam-key-cache.   (line   15)
* MyISAM storage engine:                 storage-engines.    (line   20)
* MyISAM storage engine <1>:             myisam-storage-engine.
                                                             (line   13)
* MyISAM, compressed tables:             myisampack.         (line    6)
* MyISAM, compressed tables <1>:         compressed-format.  (line    6)
* MyISAM, converting tables to InnoDB:   converting-tables-to-innodb.
                                                             (line    6)
* myisam-block-size option, mysqld:      server-options.     (line 1059)
* myisam-recover option, mysqld:         server-options.     (line 1077)
* myisamchk:                             programs-overview.  (line  174)
* myisamchk <1>:                         myisamchk.          (line   15)
* myisamchk, analyze option:             myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line    9)
* myisamchk, backup option:              myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   10)
* myisamchk, block-search option:        myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   19)
* myisamchk, character-sets-dir option:  myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   15)
* myisamchk, check option:               myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line    9)
* myisamchk, check-only-changed option:  myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   15)
* myisamchk, correct-checksum option:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   21)
* myisamchk, data-file-length option:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   26)
* myisamchk, debug option:               myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   23)
* myisamchk, defaults-extra-file option: myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   29)
* myisamchk, defaults-file option:       myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   40)
* myisamchk, defaults-group-suffix option: myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   50)
* myisamchk, description option:         myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   24)
* myisamchk, example output:             myisamchk-table-info.
                                                             (line    6)
* myisamchk, extend-check option:        myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   20)
* myisamchk, extend-check option <1>:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   32)
* myisamchk, fast option:                myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   38)
* myisamchk, force option:               myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   43)
* myisamchk, force option <1>:           myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   45)
* myisamchk, help option:                myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   11)
* myisamchk, HELP option:                myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   17)
* myisamchk, information option:         myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   50)
* myisamchk, keys-used option:           myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   51)
* myisamchk, max-record-length option:   myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   69)
* myisamchk, medium-check option:        myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   55)
* myisamchk, no-defaults option:         myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   62)
* myisamchk, no-symlinks option:         myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   61)
* myisamchk, options:                    myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* myisamchk, parallel-recover option:    myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   75)
* myisamchk, print-defaults option:      myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   72)
* myisamchk, quick option:               myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   82)
* myisamchk, read-only option:           myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   62)
* myisamchk, recover option:             myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line   90)
* myisamchk, safe-recover option:        myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line  104)
* myisamchk, set-auto-increment[ option: myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   31)
* myisamchk, set-collation option:       myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line  118)
* myisamchk, silent option:              myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   81)
* myisamchk, sort-index option:          myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   40)
* myisamchk, sort-records option:        myisamchk-other-options.
                                                             (line   46)
* myisamchk, sort-recover option:        myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line  125)
* myisamchk, tmpdir option:              myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line  131)
* myisamchk, unpack option:              myisamchk-repair-options.
                                                             (line  142)
* myisamchk, update-state option:        myisamchk-check-options.
                                                             (line   70)
* myisamchk, verbose option:             myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   88)
* myisamchk, version option:             myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line   95)
* myisamchk, wait option:                myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  100)
* myisamlog:                             programs-overview.  (line  180)
* myisamlog <1>:                         myisamlog.          (line    6)
* myisampack:                            programs-overview.  (line  186)
* myisampack <1>:                        myisampack.         (line    6)
* myisampack <2>:                        silent-column-changes.
                                                             (line   70)
* myisampack <3>:                        compressed-format.  (line    6)
* myisampack, backup option:             myisampack.         (line   55)
* myisampack, character-sets-dir option: myisampack.         (line   61)
* myisampack, debug option:              myisampack.         (line   67)
* myisampack, force option:              myisampack.         (line   73)
* myisampack, help option:               myisampack.         (line   50)
* myisampack, join option:               myisampack.         (line   86)
* myisampack, silent option:             myisampack.         (line   99)
* myisampack, test option:               myisampack.         (line  104)
* myisampack, tmpdir option:             myisampack.         (line  109)
* myisampack, verbose option:            myisampack.         (line  115)
* myisampack, version option:            myisampack.         (line  121)
* myisampack, wait option:               myisampack.         (line  126)
* myisam_block_size myisamchk variable:  myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* myisam_data_pointer_size system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3512)
* myisam_ftdump:                         programs-overview.  (line  168)
* myisam_ftdump <1>:                     myisam-ftdump.      (line    6)
* myisam_ftdump, count option:           myisam-ftdump.      (line   68)
* myisam_ftdump, dump option:            myisam-ftdump.      (line   73)
* myisam_ftdump, help option:            myisam-ftdump.      (line   63)
* myisam_ftdump, length option:          myisam-ftdump.      (line   78)
* myisam_ftdump, stats option:           myisam-ftdump.      (line   83)
* myisam_ftdump, verbose option:         myisam-ftdump.      (line   89)
* myisam_max_sort_file_size system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3541)
* myisam_max_sort_file_size system variable <1>: myisam-start.
                                                             (line   81)
* myisam_mmap_size system variable:      server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3572)
* myisam_recover_options system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3621)
* myisam_recover_options system variable <1>: myisam-start.  (line   90)
* myisam_repair_threads system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3685)
* myisam_sort_buffer_size myisamchk variable: myisamchk-general-options.
                                                             (line  112)
* myisam_sort_buffer_size system variable: server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3726)
* myisam_sort_buffer_size system variable <1>: myisam-start. (line   94)
* myisam_stats_method system variable:   server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3779)
* myisam_use_mmap system variable:       server-system-variables.
                                                             (line 3813)
* mysql:                                 programs-overview.  (line  114)
* mysql <1>:                             mysql.              (line   15)
* mysql <2>:                             glossary.           (line 2028)
* MySQL binary distribution:             which-version.      (line   14)
* MYSQL C type:                          c-api-data-structures.
                                                             (line   10)
* mysql client parser, versus mysqld parser: mysql-tips.     (line  189)
* MySQL Cluster Manager, and ndb_mgm:    mysql-cluster-mgm-client-commands.
                                                             (line   17)
* mysql command options:                 mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysql commands, list of:               mysql-commands.     (line   11)
* MySQL Dolphin name:                    history.            (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Audit:                audit-log.          (line   17)
* MySQL Enterprise Audit <1>:            mysql-enterprise-audit.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Backup:               mysql-enterprise-backup.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Backup <1>:           glossary.           (line 2034)
* MySQL Enterprise Data Masking and De-Identification: mysql-enterprise-data-masking.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Encryption:           mysql-enterprise-encryption.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Firewall:             mysql-enterprise-firewall.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Monitor:              mysql-enterprise-monitor.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Security:             pam-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Security <1>:         windows-pluggable-authentication.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Security <2>:         mysql-enterprise-security.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Thread Pool:          thread-pool.        (line   13)
* MySQL Enterprise Thread Pool <1>:      mysql-enterprise-thread-pool.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Thread Pool, components: thread-pool-components.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL Enterprise Thread Pool, installing: thread-pool-installation.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL history:                         history.            (line    6)
* mysql history file:                    mysql-logging.      (line    6)
* MySQL Installer:                       mysql-installer.    (line   14)
* MySQL name:                            history.            (line    6)
* MySQL privileges, and NDB Cluster:     mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges.
                                                             (line   10)
* mysql prompt command:                  mysql-commands.     (line  315)
* MySQL server, mysqld:                  mysqld.             (line    6)
* MySQL server, mysqld <1>:              mysqld-server.      (line   23)
* mysql source (command for reading from text files): batch-mode.
                                                             (line   91)
* mysql source (command for reading from text files) <1>: mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL source distribution:             which-version.      (line   14)
* MySQL storage engines:                 storage-engines.    (line   20)
* MySQL system tables, and NDB Cluster:  mysql-cluster-security-mysql-privileges.
                                                             (line   23)
* MySQL system tables, and replication:  replication-features-mysqldb.
                                                             (line    6)
* MySQL version:                         getting-mysql.      (line    6)
* mysql \. (command for reading from text files): batch-mode.
                                                             (line   91)
* mysql \. (command for reading from text files) <1>: mysql-batch-commands.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysql, auto-rehash option:             mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  240)
* mysql, auto-vertical-output option:    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  261)
* mysql, batch option:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  268)
* mysql, binary-as-hex option:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  279)
* mysql, bind-address option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  289)
* mysql, character-sets-dir option:      mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  300)
* mysql, charset command:                mysql-commands.     (line   62)
* mysql, clear command:                  mysql-commands.     (line   71)
* mysql, column-names option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  306)
* mysql, column-type-info option:        mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  311)
* mysql, comments option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  316)
* mysql, compress option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  323)
* mysql, connect command:                mysql-commands.     (line   77)
* mysql, connect-timeout option:         mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  331)
* mysql, database option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  334)
* mysql, debug option:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  339)
* mysql, debug-check option:             mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  349)
* mysql, debug-info option:              mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  354)
* mysql, default-auth option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  360)
* mysql, default-character-set option:   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  366)
* mysql, defaults-extra-file option:     mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  381)
* mysql, defaults-file option:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  392)
* mysql, defaults-group-suffix option:   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  399)
* MySQL, defined:                        what-is-mysql.      (line    6)
* mysql, delimiter command:              mysql-commands.     (line   85)
* mysql, delimiter option:               mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  411)
* mysql, disable named commands:         mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  417)
* mysql, edit command:                   mysql-commands.     (line  121)
* mysql, ego command:                    mysql-commands.     (line  131)
* mysql, enable-cleartext-plugin option: mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  426)
* mysql, execute option:                 mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  433)
* mysql, exit command:                   mysql-commands.     (line  137)
* mysql, force option:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  441)
* MySQL, forums:                         forums.             (line    6)
* mysql, go command:                     mysql-commands.     (line  142)
* mysql, help command:                   mysql-commands.     (line   51)
* mysql, help option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  235)
* mysql, host option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  446)
* mysql, html option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  451)
* mysql, i-am-a-dummy option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  713)
* mysql, ignore-spaces option:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  456)
* mysql, init-command option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  463)
* MySQL, introduction:                   what-is-mysql.      (line    6)
* mysql, line-numbers option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  470)
* mysql, local-infile option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  476)
* mysql, max-allowed-packet option:      mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  489)
* mysql, max-join-size option:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  494)
* mysql, named-commands option:          mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  497)
* mysql, net-buffer-length option:       mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  507)
* mysql, no-auto-rehash option:          mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  510)
* mysql, no-beep option:                 mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  516)
* mysql, no-defaults option:             mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  521)
* mysql, no-named-commands option:       mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  531)
* mysql, no-pager option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  537)
* mysql, no-tee option:                  mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  543)
* mysql, nopager command:                mysql-commands.     (line  147)
* mysql, notee command:                  mysql-commands.     (line  154)
* mysql, nowarning command:              mysql-commands.     (line  160)
* mysql, one-database option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  549)
* mysql, pager command:                  mysql-commands.     (line  165)
* mysql, pager option:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  593)
* mysql, password option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  603)
* mysql, pipe option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  621)
* mysql, plugin-dir option:              mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  628)
* mysql, port option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  636)
* mysql, print command:                  mysql-commands.     (line  187)
* mysql, print-defaults option:          mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  641)
* mysql, prompt command:                 mysql-commands.     (line  192)
* mysql, prompt option:                  mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  650)
* MySQL, pronunciation:                  what-is-mysql.      (line  103)
* mysql, protocol option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  657)
* mysql, quick option:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  665)
* mysql, quit command:                   mysql-commands.     (line  202)
* mysql, raw option:                     mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  672)
* mysql, reconnect option:               mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  704)
* mysql, rehash command:                 mysql-commands.     (line  207)
* mysql, safe-updates option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  712)
* mysql, secure-auth option:             mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  724)
* mysql, select-limit option:            mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  739)
* mysql, shared-memory-base-name option: mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  742)
* mysql, show-warnings option:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  753)
* mysql, sigint-ignore option:           mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  759)
* mysql, silent option:                  mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  769)
* mysql, skip-column-names option:       mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  779)
* mysql, skip-line-numbers option:       mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  784)
* mysql, socket option:                  mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  790)
* mysql, source command:                 mysql-commands.     (line  214)
* mysql, SSL options:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  800)
* mysql, status command:                 mysql-commands.     (line  223)
* mysql, system command:                 mysql-commands.     (line  231)
* mysql, table option:                   mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  807)
* mysql, tee command:                    mysql-commands.     (line  238)
* mysql, tee option:                     mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  814)
* mysql, unbuffered option:              mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  821)
* MySQL, upgrading:                      mysql-upgrade.      (line    6)
* mysql, use command:                    mysql-commands.     (line  253)
* mysql, user option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  826)
* mysql, verbose option:                 mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  832)
* mysql, version option:                 mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  840)
* mysql, vertical option:                mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  845)
* mysql, wait option:                    mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  852)
* mysql, warnings command:               mysql-commands.     (line  258)
* MySQL, websites:                       mysql-web-sites.    (line    6)
* mysql, xml option:                     mysql-command-options.
                                                             (line  858)
* mysql.event table:                     events-privileges.  (line  139)
* mysql.ndb_binlog_index table:          mysql-cluster-replication-schema.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysql.server:                          programs-overview.  (line   51)
* mysql.server <1>:                      mysql-server.       (line    6)
* mysql.server, basedir option:          mysql-server.       (line  132)
* mysql.server, datadir option:          mysql-server.       (line  137)
* mysql.server, pid-file option:         mysql-server.       (line  142)
* mysql.server, service-startup-timeout option: mysql-server.
                                                             (line  161)
* mysql.sock, protection:                problems-with-mysql-sock.
                                                             (line    6)
* MYSQL323 SQL mode:                     sql-mode.           (line  543)
* MYSQL40 SQL mode:                      sql-mode.           (line  564)
* mysqlaccess:                           programs-overview.  (line  192)
* mysqlaccess <1>:                       mysqlaccess.        (line    6)
* mysqlaccess, brief option:             mysqlaccess.        (line   93)
* mysqlaccess, commit option:            mysqlaccess.        (line   98)
* mysqlaccess, copy option:              mysqlaccess.        (line  106)
* mysqlaccess, db option:                mysqlaccess.        (line  111)
* mysqlaccess, debug option:             mysqlaccess.        (line  116)
* mysqlaccess, help option:              mysqlaccess.        (line   88)
* mysqlaccess, host option:              mysqlaccess.        (line  121)
* mysqlaccess, howto option:             mysqlaccess.        (line  126)
* mysqlaccess, old_server option:        mysqlaccess.        (line  132)
* mysqlaccess, password option:          mysqlaccess.        (line  138)
* mysqlaccess, plan option:              mysqlaccess.        (line  148)
* mysqlaccess, preview option:           mysqlaccess.        (line  153)
* mysqlaccess, relnotes option:          mysqlaccess.        (line  159)
* mysqlaccess, rhost option:             mysqlaccess.        (line  164)
* mysqlaccess, rollback option:          mysqlaccess.        (line  169)
* mysqlaccess, spassword option:         mysqlaccess.        (line  174)
* mysqlaccess, superuser option:         mysqlaccess.        (line  185)
* mysqlaccess, table option:             mysqlaccess.        (line  190)
* mysqlaccess, user option:              mysqlaccess.        (line  195)
* mysqlaccess, version option:           mysqlaccess.        (line  200)
* mysqladmin:                            programs-overview.  (line  120)
* mysqladmin <1>:                        mysqladmin.         (line    6)
* mysqladmin <2>:                        create-database.    (line   47)
* mysqladmin <3>:                        drop-database.      (line   77)
* mysqladmin <4>:                        show-status.        (line    9)
* mysqladmin <5>:                        show-variables.     (line    9)
* mysqladmin <6>:                        flush.              (line    6)
* mysqladmin <7>:                        kill.               (line    6)
* mysqladmin command options:            mysqladmin.         (line  233)
* mysqladmin option, mysqld_multi:       mysqld-multi.       (line  115)
* mysqladmin, bind-address option:       mysqladmin.         (line  356)
* mysqladmin, character-sets-dir option: mysqladmin.         (line  367)
* mysqladmin, compress option:           mysqladmin.         (line  373)
* mysqladmin, count option:              mysqladmin.         (line  379)
* mysqladmin, debug option:              mysqladmin.         (line  385)
* mysqladmin, debug-check option:        mysqladmin.         (line  391)
* mysqladmin, debug-info option:         mysqladmin.         (line  396)
* mysqladmin, default-auth option:       mysqladmin.         (line  402)
* mysqladmin, default-character-set option: mysqladmin.      (line  410)
* mysqladmin, defaults-extra-file option: mysqladmin.        (line  416)
* mysqladmin, defaults-file option:      mysqladmin.         (line  427)
* mysqladmin, defaults-group-suffix option: mysqladmin.      (line  434)
* mysqladmin, enable-cleartext-plugin option: mysqladmin.    (line  447)
* mysqladmin, force option:              mysqladmin.         (line  454)
* mysqladmin, help option:               mysqladmin.         (line  351)
* mysqladmin, host option:               mysqladmin.         (line  460)
* mysqladmin, no-beep option:            mysqladmin.         (line  465)
* mysqladmin, no-defaults option:        mysqladmin.         (line  471)
* mysqladmin, password option:           mysqladmin.         (line  481)
* mysqladmin, pipe option:               mysqladmin.         (line  499)
* mysqladmin, plugin-dir option:         mysqladmin.         (line  506)
* mysqladmin, port option:               mysqladmin.         (line  516)
* mysqladmin, print-defaults option:     mysqladmin.         (line  521)
* mysqladmin, protocol option:           mysqladmin.         (line  530)
* mysqladmin, relative option:           mysqladmin.         (line  538)
* mysqladmin, shared-memory-base-name option: mysqladmin.    (line  545)
* mysqladmin, silent option:             mysqladmin.         (line  556)
* mysqladmin, sleep option:              mysqladmin.         (line  561)
* mysqladmin, socket option:             mysqladmin.         (line  569)
* mysqladmin, SSL options:               mysqladmin.         (line  579)
* mysqladmin, user option:               mysqladmin.         (line  586)
* mysqladmin, verbose option:            mysqladmin.         (line  592)
* mysqladmin, version option:            mysqladmin.         (line  597)
* mysqladmin, vertical option:           mysqladmin.         (line  602)
* mysqladmin, wait option:               mysqladmin.         (line  608)
* mysqlbackup command:                   glossary.           (line 2040)
* mysqlbinlog:                           programs-overview.  (line  198)
* mysqlbinlog <1>:                       mysqlbinlog.        (line   11)
* mysqlbinlog, base64-output option:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  234)
* mysqlbinlog, bind-address option:      mysqlbinlog.        (line  282)
* mysqlbinlog, character-sets-dir option: mysqlbinlog.       (line  289)
* mysqlbinlog, database option:          mysqlbinlog.        (line  295)
* mysqlbinlog, debug option:             mysqlbinlog.        (line  379)
* mysqlbinlog, debug-check option:       mysqlbinlog.        (line  385)
* mysqlbinlog, debug-info option:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  390)
* mysqlbinlog, default-auth option:      mysqlbinlog.        (line  396)
* mysqlbinlog, defaults-extra-file option: mysqlbinlog.      (line  404)
* mysqlbinlog, defaults-file option:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  415)
* mysqlbinlog, defaults-group-suffix option: mysqlbinlog.    (line  425)
* mysqlbinlog, disable-log-bin option:   mysqlbinlog.        (line  438)
* mysqlbinlog, force-if-open option:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  455)
* mysqlbinlog, force-read option:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  461)
* mysqlbinlog, help option:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  229)
* mysqlbinlog, hexdump option:           mysqlbinlog.        (line  469)
* mysqlbinlog, host option:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  476)
* mysqlbinlog, local-load option:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  481)
* mysqlbinlog, no-defaults option:       mysqlbinlog.        (line  492)
* mysqlbinlog, offset option:            mysqlbinlog.        (line  502)
* mysqlbinlog, open-files-limit option:  mysqlbinlog.        (line  509)
* mysqlbinlog, password option:          mysqlbinlog.        (line  511)
* mysqlbinlog, plugin-dir option:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  529)
* mysqlbinlog, port option:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  539)
* mysqlbinlog, position option:          mysqlbinlog.        (line  544)
* mysqlbinlog, print-defaults option:    mysqlbinlog.        (line  550)
* mysqlbinlog, protocol option:          mysqlbinlog.        (line  559)
* mysqlbinlog, read-from-remote-server option: mysqlbinlog.  (line  567)
* mysqlbinlog, result-file option:       mysqlbinlog.        (line  579)
* mysqlbinlog, server-id option:         mysqlbinlog.        (line  584)
* mysqlbinlog, server-id-bits option:    mysqlbinlog.        (line  590)
* mysqlbinlog, set-charset option:       mysqlbinlog.        (line  603)
* mysqlbinlog, shared-memory-base-name option: mysqlbinlog.  (line  610)
* mysqlbinlog, short-form option:        mysqlbinlog.        (line  621)
* mysqlbinlog, socket option:            mysqlbinlog.        (line  628)
* mysqlbinlog, SSL options:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  638)
* mysqlbinlog, start-datetime option:    mysqlbinlog.        (line  645)
* mysqlbinlog, start-position option:    mysqlbinlog.        (line  660)
* mysqlbinlog, stop-datetime option:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  670)
* mysqlbinlog, stop-position option:     mysqlbinlog.        (line  681)
* mysqlbinlog, to-last-log option:       mysqlbinlog.        (line  691)
* mysqlbinlog, user option:              mysqlbinlog.        (line  700)
* mysqlbinlog, verbose option:           mysqlbinlog.        (line  706)
* mysqlbinlog, version option:           mysqlbinlog.        (line  717)
* mysqlbug:                              mysqlbug.           (line    6)
* mysqlcheck:                            programs-overview.  (line  129)
* mysqlcheck <1>:                        mysqlcheck.         (line    6)
* mysqlcheck, all-databases option:      mysqlcheck.         (line  240)
* mysqlcheck, all-in-1 option:           mysqlcheck.         (line  249)
* mysqlcheck, analyze option:            mysqlcheck.         (line  256)
* mysqlcheck, auto-repair option:        mysqlcheck.         (line  261)
* mysqlcheck, bind-address option:       mysqlcheck.         (line  267)
* mysqlcheck, character-sets-dir option: mysqlcheck.         (line  278)
* mysqlcheck, check option:              mysqlcheck.         (line  284)
* mysqlcheck, check-only-changed option: mysqlcheck.         (line  289)
* mysqlcheck, check-upgrade option:      mysqlcheck.         (line  295)
* mysqlcheck, compress option:           mysqlcheck.         (line  303)
* mysqlcheck, databases option:          mysqlcheck.         (line  309)
* mysqlcheck, debug option:              mysqlcheck.         (line  318)
* mysqlcheck, debug-check option:        mysqlcheck.         (line  324)
* mysqlcheck, debug-info option:         mysqlcheck.         (line  329)
* mysqlcheck, default-auth option:       mysqlcheck.         (line  382)
* mysqlcheck, default-character-set option: mysqlcheck.      (line  335)
* mysqlcheck, defaults-extra-file option: mysqlcheck.        (line  341)
* mysqlcheck, defaults-file option:      mysqlcheck.         (line  352)
* mysqlcheck, defaults-group-suffix option: mysqlcheck.      (line  359)
* mysqlcheck, enable-cleartext-plugin option: mysqlcheck.    (line  390)
* mysqlcheck, extended option:           mysqlcheck.         (line  372)
* mysqlcheck, fast option:               mysqlcheck.         (line  398)
* mysqlcheck, fix-db-names option:       mysqlcheck.         (line  403)
* mysqlcheck, fix-table-names option:    mysqlcheck.         (line  409)
* mysqlcheck, force option:              mysqlcheck.         (line  416)
* mysqlcheck, help option:               mysqlcheck.         (line  235)
* mysqlcheck, host option:               mysqlcheck.         (line  421)
* mysqlcheck, medium-check option:       mysqlcheck.         (line  426)
* mysqlcheck, no-defaults option:        mysqlcheck.         (line  433)
* mysqlcheck, optimize option:           mysqlcheck.         (line  443)
* mysqlcheck, password option:           mysqlcheck.         (line  448)
* mysqlcheck, pipe option:               mysqlcheck.         (line  466)
* mysqlcheck, plugin-dir option:         mysqlcheck.         (line  473)
* mysqlcheck, port option:               mysqlcheck.         (line  483)
* mysqlcheck, print-defaults option:     mysqlcheck.         (line  488)
* mysqlcheck, protocol option:           mysqlcheck.         (line  497)
* mysqlcheck, quick option:              mysqlcheck.         (line  505)
* mysqlcheck, repair option:             mysqlcheck.         (line  515)
* mysqlcheck, shared-memory-base-name option: mysqlcheck.    (line  521)
* mysqlcheck, silent option:             mysqlcheck.         (line  532)
* mysqlcheck, socket option:             mysqlcheck.         (line  537)
* mysqlcheck, SSL options:               mysqlcheck.         (line  547)
* mysqlcheck, tables option:             mysqlcheck.         (line  554)
* mysqlcheck, use-frm option:            mysqlcheck.         (line  560)
* mysqlcheck, user option:               mysqlcheck.         (line  567)
* mysqlcheck, verbose option:            mysqlcheck.         (line  573)
* mysqlcheck, version option:            mysqlcheck.         (line  579)
* mysqlcheck, write-binlog option:       mysqlcheck.         (line  584)
* mysqld:                                programs-overview.  (line   37)
* mysqld <1>:                            glossary.           (line 2047)
* mysqld (NDB Cluster):                  mysql-cluster-programs.
                                                             (line   36)
* mysqld option, malloc-lib:             mysqld-safe.        (line  172)
* mysqld option, mysqld_multi:           mysqld-multi.       (line  121)
* mysqld option, mysqld_safe:            mysqld-safe.        (line  232)
* mysqld option, mysql_plugin:           mysql-plugin.       (line  123)
* mysqld options:                        server-configuration.
                                                             (line   13)
* mysqld options and variables, NDB Cluster: mysql-cluster-options-variables.
                                                             (line   12)
* mysqld parser, versus mysql client parser: mysql-tips.     (line  189)
* mysqld system variables:               server-configuration.
                                                             (line   13)
* mysqld, abort-slave-event-count option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line   40)
* mysqld, allow-suspicious-udfs option:  server-options.     (line  116)
* mysqld, ansi option:                   server-options.     (line  135)
* mysqld, as NDB Cluster process:        mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysqld, as NDB Cluster process <1>:    mysql-cluster-mysqld.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysqld, audit-log option:              audit-log-options-variables.
                                                             (line   15)
* mysqld, basedir option:                server-options.     (line  147)
* mysqld, bind-address option:           server-options.     (line  168)
* mysqld, binlog-do-db option:           replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  117)
* mysqld, binlog-ignore-db option:       replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  240)
* mysqld, binlog-row-event-max-size option: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line   24)
* mysqld, bootstrap option:              server-options.     (line  225)
* mysqld, character-set-client-handshake option: server-options.
                                                             (line  242)
* mysqld, chroot option:                 server-options.     (line  259)
* mysqld, command options:               server-options.     (line    6)
* mysqld, console option:                server-options.     (line  275)
* mysqld, core-file option:              server-options.     (line  291)
* mysqld, datadir option:                server-options.     (line  320)
* mysqld, debug option:                  server-options.     (line  339)
* mysqld, debug-sync-timeout option:     server-options.     (line  380)
* mysqld, default-character-set option:  server-options.     (line  407)
* mysqld, default-collation option:      server-options.     (line  424)
* mysqld, default-time-zone option:      server-options.     (line  441)
* mysqld, defaults-extra-file option:    server-options.     (line  456)
* mysqld, defaults-file option:          server-options.     (line  469)
* mysqld, defaults-group-suffix option:  server-options.     (line  487)
* mysqld, des-key-file option:           server-options.     (line  499)
* mysqld, disconnect-slave-event-count option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line   68)
* mysqld, enable-pstack option:          server-options.     (line  518)
* mysqld, exit-info option:              server-options.     (line  535)
* mysqld, external-locking option:       server-options.     (line  550)
* mysqld, flush option:                  server-options.     (line  574)
* mysqld, gdb option:                    server-options.     (line  603)
* mysqld, help option:                   server-options.     (line  105)
* mysqld, innodb option:                 innodb-parameters.  (line  284)
* mysqld, innodb-status-file option:     innodb-parameters.  (line  309)
* mysqld, install option:                server-options.     (line  624)
* mysqld, install-manual option:         server-options.     (line  644)
* mysqld, language option:               server-options.     (line  665)
* mysqld, large-pages option:            server-options.     (line  694)
* mysqld, lc-messages option:            server-options.     (line  728)
* mysqld, lc-messages-dir option:        server-options.     (line  751)
* mysqld, local-service option:          server-options.     (line  772)
* mysqld, log option:                    server-options.     (line  787)
* mysqld, log-bin option:                replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line   54)
* mysqld, log-bin-index option:          replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line   87)
* mysqld, log-error option:              server-options.     (line  818)
* mysqld, log-isam option:               server-options.     (line  851)
* mysqld, log-long-format option:        server-options.     (line  864)
* mysqld, log-short-format option:       server-options.     (line  883)
* mysqld, log-slow-admin-statements option: server-options.  (line  898)
* mysqld, log-slow-slave-statements option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line   83)
* mysqld, log-tc option:                 server-options.     (line  917)
* mysqld, log-tc-size option:            server-options.     (line  935)
* mysqld, log-warnings option:           server-options.     (line  961)
* mysqld, log-warnings option <1>:       replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  103)
* mysqld, master-info-file option:       replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  149)
* mysqld, master-retry-count option:     replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  166)
* mysqld, max-binlog-dump-events option: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  317)
* mysqld, max-relay-log-size option:     replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  195)
* mysqld, memlock option:                server-options.     (line 1014)
* mysqld, myisam-block-size option:      server-options.     (line 1058)
* mysqld, myisam-recover option:         server-options.     (line 1076)
* mysqld, MySQL server:                  mysqld.             (line    6)
* mysqld, MySQL server <1>:              mysqld-server.      (line   23)
* mysqld, ndb-batch-size option:         mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line   57)
* mysqld, ndb-blob-read-batch-bytes option: mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  153)
* mysqld, ndb-blob-write-batch-bytes option: mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  199)
* mysqld, ndb-cluster-connection-pool option: mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line   85)
* mysqld, ndb-connectstring option:      mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  245)
* mysqld, ndb-log-apply-status:          mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  342)
* mysqld, ndb-log-empty-epochs:          mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  392)
* mysqld, ndb-log-empty-update:          mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  435)
* mysqld, ndb-log-orig:                  mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  470)
* mysqld, ndb-log-transaction-id:        mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  503)
* mysqld, ndb-nodeid:                    mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  576)
* mysqld, ndbcluster option:             mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line   23)
* mysqld, no-defaults option:            server-options.     (line 1083)
* mysqld, old-style-user-limits option:  server-options.     (line 1094)
* mysqld, one-thread option:             server-options.     (line 1111)
* mysqld, partition option:              server-options.     (line 1126)
* mysqld, plugin option prefix:          server-options.     (line 1202)
* mysqld, plugin-load option:            server-options.     (line 1143)
* mysqld, port option:                   server-options.     (line 1228)
* mysqld, port-open-timeout option:      server-options.     (line 1255)
* mysqld, print-defaults option:         server-options.     (line 1274)
* mysqld, relay-log-purge option:        replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  224)
* mysqld, relay-log-space-limit option:  replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  247)
* mysqld, remove option:                 server-options.     (line 1285)
* mysqld, replicate-do-db option:        replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  297)
* mysqld, replicate-do-table option:     replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  479)
* mysqld, replicate-ignore-db option:    replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  411)
* mysqld, replicate-ignore-table option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  500)
* mysqld, replicate-rewrite-db option:   replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  522)
* mysqld, replicate-same-server-id option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  570)
* mysqld, replicate-wild-do-table option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  594)
* mysqld, replicate-wild-ignore-table option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  639)
* mysqld, role in NDB Cluster:           mysql-cluster-basics.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysqld, safe-mode option:              server-options.     (line 1299)
* mysqld, safe-show-database option:     server-options.     (line 1312)
* mysqld, safe-user-create option:       server-options.     (line 1329)
* mysqld, safemalloc-mem-limit option:   server-options.     (line 1354)
* mysqld, server-id-bits option:         mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  778)
* mysqld, show-slave-auth-info option:   replication-options-master.
                                                             (line   27)
* mysqld, skip-grant-tables option:      server-options.     (line 1370)
* mysqld, skip-host-cache option:        server-options.     (line 1415)
* mysqld, skip-innodb option:            server-options.     (line 1430)
* mysqld, skip-innodb option <1>:        innodb-parameters.  (line  339)
* mysqld, skip-ndbcluster option:        mysql-cluster-program-options-mysqld.
                                                             (line  839)
* mysqld, skip-new option:               server-options.     (line 1440)
* mysqld, skip-partition option:         server-options.     (line 1453)
* mysqld, skip-safemalloc option:        server-options.     (line 1477)
* mysqld, skip-show-database option:     server-options.     (line 1495)
* mysqld, skip-slave-start option:       replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  664)
* mysqld, skip-stack-trace option:       server-options.     (line 1513)
* mysqld, skip-symbolic-links option:    server-options.     (line 1675)
* mysqld, skip-thread-priority option:   server-options.     (line 1526)
* mysqld, slave-skip-errors option:      replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  702)
* mysqld, slave_compressed_protocol option: replication-options-slave.
                                                             (line  680)
* mysqld, slow-start-timeout option:     server-options.     (line 1539)
* mysqld, socket option:                 server-options.     (line 1561)
* mysqld, sporadic-binlog-dump-fail option: replication-options-binary-log.
                                                             (line  332)
* mysqld, sql-mode option:               server-options.     (line 1591)
* mysqld, SSL options:                   server-options.     (line 1631)
* mysqld, standalone option:             server-options.     (line 1638)
* mysqld, starting:                      changing-mysql-user.
                                                             (line    6)
* mysqld, super-large-pages option:      server-options.     (line 1651)
* mysqld, symbolic-links option:         server-options.     (line 1674)
* mysqld, sysdate-is-now option:         server-options.     (line 1707)
* mysqld, tc-heuristic-recover option:   server-options.     (line 1727)
* mysqld, temp-pool option:              server-options.     (line 1745)
* mysqld, tmpdir option:                 server-options.     (line 1792)
* mysqld, transaction-isolation option:  server-options.     (line 1769)
* mysqld, user option:                   server-options.     (line 1824)
* mysqld, verbose option:                server-options.     (line 1856)
* mysqld, version option:                server-options.     (line 1861)
* mysqld-version option, mysqld_safe:    mysqld-safe.        (line  245)
* mysqldump:                             copying-databases.  (line   47)
* mysqldump <1>:                         programs-overview.  (line  135)
* mysqldump <2>:                         mysqldump.          (line    6)
* mysqldump <3>:                         glossary.           (line 2052)
* mysqldump, add-drop-database option:   mysqldump.          (line  507)
* mysqldump, add-drop-table option:      mysqldump.          (line  517)
* mysqldump, add-drop-trigger option:    mysqldump.          (line  523)
* mysqldump, add-locks option:           mysqldump.          (line  535)
* mysqldump, all-databases option:       mysqldump.          (line  543)
* mysqldump, all-tablespaces option:     mysqldump.          (line  550)
* mysqldump, allow-keywords option:      mysqldump.          (line  559)
* mysqldump, apply-slave-statements option: mysqldump.       (line  565)
* mysqldump, bind-address option:        mysqldump.          (line  573)
* mysqldump, character-sets-dir option:  mysqldump.          (line  584)
* mysqldump, comments option:            mysqldump.          (line  590)
* mysqldump, compact option:             mysqldump.          (line  598)
* mysqldump, compatible option:          mysqldump.          (line  605)
* mysqldump, complete-insert option:     mysqldump.          (line  622)
* mysqldump, compress option:            mysqldump.          (line  628)
* mysqldump, create-options option:      mysqldump.          (line  634)
* mysqldump, databases option:           mysqldump.          (line  640)
* mysqldump, debug option:               mysqldump.          (line  655)
* mysqldump, debug-check option:         mysqldump.          (line  662)
* mysqldump, debug-info option:          mysqldump.          (line  667)
* mysqldump, default-auth option:        mysqldump.          (line  673)
* mysqldump, default-character-set option: mysqldump.        (line  681)
* mysqldump, defaults-extra-file option: mysqldump.          (line  688)
* mysqldump, defaults-file option:       mysqldump.          (line  699)
* mysqldump, defaults-group-suffix option: mysqldump.        (line  706)
* mysqldump, delayed-insert option:      mysqldump.          (line  719)
* mysqldump, delete-master-logs option:  mysqldump.          (line  725)
* mysqldump, disable-keys option:        mysqldump.          (line  733)
* mysqldump, dump-date option:           mysqldump.          (line  