# 50.2 Variables

- 50.2.1 Examining and Setting Variables
- 50.2.2 Hooks
- 50.2.3 Local Variables
- 50.2.4 Local Variables in Files
- 50.2.4.1 Specifying File Variables
- 50.2.4.2 Safety of File Variables
- 50.2.5 Per-Directory Local Variables
- 50.2.6 Per-Connection Local Variables

A *variable* is a Lisp *symbol* which has a value. 
The *symbol's name* is also called the *variable name*. 

A *variable name* can contain any characters that can appear in a file, but most variable names consist of ordinary words separated by hyphens.

The name of the variable serves as a compact description of its role.

Most variables also have a *documentation string*, which describes what the variable's purpose is, what kind of value it should have, and how the value will be used.

You can view this documentation using the help command `C-h v (describe-variable)`. See Examining and Setting Variables.

https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Examining.html

## 50.2 Variable

Emacs uses many Lisp variables for internal record keeping, but the most interesting variables for a non-programmer user are those meant for users to change - these are called *customizable variables* or *user options*. In the following sections, we will describe other aspects of Emacs variables, such as how to set them outside "Customize".

Emacs Lisp allows any variable (with a few exceptions) to have any kind of value.

However, many variables are meaningful only if assigned values of a certain *type*.

For example, only numbers are meaningful values for `kill-ring-max`, which specifies the maximum length of the kill ring; if you give kill-ring-max a string value, commands such as `C-y` (yank) will signal an error.

On the other hand, some variables don't care about type; for instance, if a variable has one effect for nil values and another effect for non-nil values, then any value that is not the symbol `nil` induces the second effect, regardless of its type. By convention, we usually use the value `t`, a symbol which stands for "true", to specify a non-nil value.

If you set a variable using the *customization buffer*, you need not worry about giving it an invalid type: the customization buffer usually only allows you to enter meaningful values.

When in doubt, use `C-h v (describe-variable)` to check the variable's documentation string to see what kind of value it expects.

## 50.2.1 Examining and Setting Variables

`C-h v var RET`   
Display the value and documentation of variable *var* (`describe-variable`).

`M-x set-variable RET var RET value RET`   
Change the value of variable *var* to *value*.

To examine the value of a variable, use `C-h v` (describe-variable). This reads a variable name using the minibuffer, with completion, and displays both the value and the documentation of the variable. For example,

    C-h v fill-column RET

displays something like this:

    fill-column is a variable defined in 'C source code'.
    Its value is 70
    ...

The most convenient way to set a specific customizable variable is with `M-x set-variable`. This reads the variable name with the minibuffer (with completion), and then reads a Lisp expression for the new value using the minibuffer a second time. You can *insert the old value* into the minibuffer for editing via `M-n`.

`M-x set-variable` is limited to customizable variables, but you can set any variable with a Lisp expression like this:

    (setq fill-column 75)

To execute such an expression, type `M-:` (eval-expression) and enter the expression in the minibuffer. Alternatively, go to the *scratch* buffer, type in the expression, and then type `C-j`.

Setting variables, like all means of customizing Emacs except where otherwise stated, affects only the current Emacs session. 

The only way to alter the variable in future sessions is to put something in your initialization file.

If you're setting a customizable variable in your init file, and you don't want to use the Customize interface, you can use the *setopt macro*. For instance:

    (setopt fill-column 75)

This works the same as `setq`, but if the variable has any special setter functions, they will be run automatically when using `setopt`. You can also use `setopt` on other, non-customizable variables, but this is less efficient than using `setq`.

## 50.2.2 Hooks

https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Hooks.html

A **hook** is a Lisp variable which holds a list of functions, to be called on some well-defined occasion. The individual functions in the list are called the *hook functions*. For example, the hook `kill-emacs-hook` runs just before exiting Emacs.

Hooks
- normal: name ends in `-hook`
- abnormal: names end in `-functions`

When Emacs runs the hook, it calls each *normal* hook function in turn, with no arguments.

What makes the hooks *abnormal* is the way its functions are called - perhaps they are given arguments, or perhaps the values they return are used in some way. The documentation of each abnormal hook variable explains how its functions are used.

You can set a hook variable with `setq` like any other Lisp variable, but the recommended way to add a function to a hook (either normal or abnormal) is to use `add-hook`.

Most major modes run one or more *mode hooks* as the last step of initialization. Mode hooks are a convenient way to customize the behavior of individual modes; they are always normal.

In particular, if you want to apply a hook function to any programming language mode, add it to `prog-mode-hook`; *Prog mode* is a major mode that does little else than to let other major modes inherit from it, exactly for this purpose.

If you play with adding various different versions of a hook function by calling add-hook over and over, remember that all the versions you added will remain in the hook variable together. You can clear out individual functions by calling remove-hook, or do (setq hook-variable nil) to remove everything.

If the hook variable is buffer-local, the *buffer-local variable* will be used instead of the global variable. However, if the buffer-local variable contains the element `t`, the global hook variable will be run as well.

## 50.2.3 Local Variables

`M-x make-local-variable RET var RET`   
Make variable *var* have a local value in the current buffer.

`M-x kill-local-variable RET var RET`   
Make variable *var* use its global value in the current buffer.

`M-x make-variable-buffer-local RET var RET`   
Mark variable *var* so that setting it will make it local to the buffer that is current at that time.

Almost any variable can be made *local to a specific Emacs buffer*. This means that its value in that buffer is independent of its value in other buffers.

A few variables are *always local in every buffer*. 

Every other Emacs variable has a *global* value which is in effect in all buffers that have not made the variable local.



## 50.2.4 Local Variables in Files

A file can specify local variable values to use when editing the file with Emacs. Visiting the file or setting a major mode checks for local variable specifications; it automatically makes these variables local to the buffer, and sets them to the values specified in the file.

File local variables override directory local variables, if any are specified for a file's directory.



## 50.2.4.1 Specifying File Variables



## 50.2.4.2 Safety of File Variables



## 50.2.5 Per-Directory Local Variables



## 50.2.6 Per-Connection Local Variables
