# 50.4 Emacs Initialization File

- 50.4.1 Init File Syntax
- 50.4.2 Init File Examples
- 50.4.3 Terminal-specific Initialization
- 50.4.4 How Emacs Finds Your Init File
- 50.4.5 Non-ASCII Characters in Init Files
- 50.4.6 The Early Init File

## 50.4 Emacs Initialization File

https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Init-File.html

When Emacs is started, it normally tries to load a Lisp program from an initialization file, or init file for short. 

This file, if it exists, specifies how to initialize Emacs for you.

Traditionally, file `~/.emacs` is used as the init file, although Emacs also looks at
- ~/.emacs
- ~/.emacs.el
- ~/.emacs.d/init.el
- ~/.config/emacs/init.el
- or other locations (See "How Emacs Finds Your Init File")

You may find it convenient to have all your Emacs configuration in one directory, in which case you should use `~/.emacs.d/init.el` or the XDG-compatible `~/.config/emacs/init.el`.

command line switches
- `-q` to prevent loading your init file
- `-u` or `--user` to specify a different user's init file

There can also be a *default init file*, which is the library named `default.el`, found via the standard search path for libraries. 

The Emacs distribution contains no such library; your site may create one for local customizations. If this library exists, it is loaded whenever you start Emacs (except when you specify '-q'). But your init file, if any, is loaded first; if it sets `inhibit-default-init` non-nil, then default is not loaded.

Your site may also have a *site startup file*; this is named `site-start.el`, if it exists. Like default.el, Emacs finds this file via the standard search path for Lisp libraries. 

Emacs loads this library before it loads your init file. To inhibit loading of this library, use the option '--no-site-file'.

You can place default.el and site-start.el in any of the directories which Emacs searches for Lisp libraries. 

The variable `load-path` specifies these directories. 

Many sites put these files in a subdirectory named 'site-lisp' in the Emacs installation directory, such as /usr/local/share/emacs/site-lisp.

Byte-compiling your init file is not recommended. It generally does not speed up startup very much, and often leads to problems when you forget to recompile the file. A better solution is to use the Emacs server to reduce the number of times you have to start Emacs. If your init file defines many functions, consider moving them to a separate (byte-compiled) file that you load in your init file.

## 50.4.1 Init File Syntax
https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Init-Syntax.html

The init file contains one or more Lisp expressions. Each of these consists of a function name followed by arguments, all surrounded by parentheses. For example, `(setq fill-column 60)` calls the function `setq` to set the variable `fill-column`.

You can set any Lisp variable with `setq`, but with certain variables `setq` won't do what you probably want in the init file. Some variables automatically become *buffer-local* when set with `setq`; what you want in the init file is to set the *default value* using `setq-default`.



## 50.4.2 Init File Examples
https://www.gnu.org/software/emacs/manual/html_node/emacs/Init-Examples.html

    (add-to-list 'load-path "/path/to/lisp/libraries")

Add a directory to the variable `load-path`. You can then put Lisp libraries that are not included with Emacs in this directory, and load them with `M-x load-library`.




## 50.4.3 Terminal-specific Initialization



## 50.4.4 How Emacs Finds Your Init File



## 50.4.5 Non-ASCII Characters in Init Files



## 50.4.6 The Early Init File

Most customizations for Emacs should be put in the normal init file. See The Emacs Initialization File. However, it is sometimes necessary to have customizations take effect during Emacs startup earlier than the normal init file is processed. 

Such customizations can be put in the early init file:
- `~/.config/emacs/early-init.el` or
- `~/.emacs.d/early-init.el`

This file is loaded before the package system and GUI is initialized, so in it you can customize variables that affect the package initialization process, such as `package-enable-at-startup`, `package-load-list`, and `package-user-dir`.

Note that variables like `package-archives` which only affect the installation of new packages, and not the process of making already installed packages available, may be customized in the regular init file. See Package Installation.

We do not recommend that you move into early-init.el customizations that can be left in the normal init files. That is because the early init file is read before the GUI is initialized, so customizations related to GUI features will not work reliably in early-init.el.

By contrast, the normal init files are read after the GUI is initialized. If you must have customizations in the early init file that rely on GUI features, make them run off hooks provided by the Emacs startup, such as `window-setup-hook` or `tty-setup-hook`.
