# Index :: Bash Key bindings

Readline commands for completion
- complete-username     `M-~`
- complete-command      `M-!`
- complete-hostname     `M-@`
- complete-variable     `M-$`
- insert-completions    `M-*`
- complete-into-braces  `M-{`
- complete-filename     `M-/`
- possible-completions  `M-?`
- possible-filename-completions `C-x /`


* complete `TAB`
Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. The actual completion performed is application-specific. Bash attempts completion treating the text as
- variable (if the text begins with `$`)
- username (if the text begins with `~`)
- hostname (if the text begins with `@`)
- command (incl. aliases and functions)
in turn. If none of these produces a match, *filename completion* is attempted.

* possible-completions  `M-?`
List the possible completions of the text before point. When displaying completions, Readline sets the number of columns used for display to the value of `completion-display-width`, the value of the environment variable `COLUMNS`, or the screen width, in that order.

* insert-completions    `M-*`
Insert all completions of the text before point that would have been generated by `possible-completions`.

* menu-complete
Similar to `complete`, but replaces the word to be completed with a single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated execution of `menu-complete` steps through the list of possible completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of `bell-style`) and the original text is restored. An argument of `n` moves `n` positions forward in the list of matches; a negative argument may be used to move backward through the list. This command is intended to be bound to TAB, but is unbound by default.

* possible-filename-completions `C-x /`
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a filename.

* possible-variable-completions `C-x $`
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a shell variable.

* possible-hostname-completions `C-x @`
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a hostname.

* possible-command-completions `C-x !`
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it as a command name.

* dynamic-complete-history `M-TAB`
Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the *history list* for possible completion matches.

* dabbrev-expand
Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the text against lines from the *history list* for possible completion matches.

* complete-into-braces `M-{`
Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the shell.


## Key seq starting with C-x

C-_       undo
C-x C-u   undo
