# Key Bindings

The syntax for controlling key bindings in the init file is simple. First you need to find the name of the command that you want to change. The following sections contain tables of the command name, the default keybinding, if any, and a short description of what the command does.

Once you know the name of the command, simply place on a line in the init file the name of the key you wish to bind the command to, a colon, and then the name of the command. *There can be no space between the key name and the colon* - that will be interpreted as part of the key name. The name of the key can be expressed in different ways, depending on what you find most comfortable.

In addition to command names, readline allows keys to be bound to a string that is inserted when the key is pressed (a macro).

The `bind -p` command displays Readline function names and bindings in a format that can put directly into an initialization file.

    KEYNAME: FUNCTION-NAME
    or
    KEYNAME: MACRO

KEYNAME is the name of a key spelled out in English. For example:

    Control-u: universal-argument
    Meta-Rubout: backward-kill-word
    Control-o: "> output"

In the example above, `C-u` is bound to the function `universal-argument`, `M-DEL` is bound to the function `backward-kill-word`, and `C-o` is bound to run the macro expressed on the right hand side (that is, to insert the text `> output` into the line).

A number of symbolic character names are recognized while processing this key binding syntax: DEL, ESC, ESCAPE, LFD, NEWLINE, RET, RETURN, RUBOUT, SPACE, SPC, and TAB.

    "KEYSEQ": FUNCTION-NAME
    or
    "KEYSEQ": MACRO

KEYSEQ differs from KEYNAME above in that strings denoting an entire key sequence can be specified, by placing the *key sequence in double quotes*. 
Some GNU Emacs style key escapes can be used, as in the following example, but the *special character names are not recognized*.

  "\C-u": universal-argument
  "\C-x\C-r": re-read-init-file
  "\e[11~": "Function Key 1"

In the above example, 'C-u' is again bound to the function 'universal-argument' (just as it was in the first example), `C-xC-r` is bound to the function `re-read-init-file`, and `<ESC>[11~` is bound to insert the text 'Function Key 1'.

The following GNU Emacs style escape sequences are available when specifying key sequences:

    '\C-'   control prefix
    '\M-'   meta prefix
    '\e'    escape character
    '\\'    backslash
    '\"'    a double quotation mark
    '\''    a single quote or apostrophe

In addition to the GNU Emacs style escape sequences, a second set
of backslash escapes is available:

     '\a'     alert (bell)
     '\b'     backspace
     '\d'     delete
     '\f'     form feed
     '\n'     newline
     '\r'     carriage return
     '\t'     horizontal tab
     '\v'     vertical tab
     '\NNN'   8-bit character whose value is octal value NNN (1-3 digits)
     '\xHH'   8-bit character whose value is hex HH (1-2 hex digits)

When entering the text of a macro, single or double quotes must be used to indicate a macro definition. *Unquoted text is assumed to be a function name*.

In the macro body, the backslash escapes described above are expanded. Backslash will quote any other character in the macro text, including single and double quote. For example, the following binding will make `C-x\` insert a single BACKSLASH: `"\C-x\\": "\\"`
