# 8.4 Bindable Readline Commands

This section describes Readline commands that may be bound to key sequences.

You can list your key bindings by executing `bind -P` or, for a more terse format, suitable for an *inputrc file*, `bind -p`.

Command names without an accompanying key sequence are unbound by default.

In the following descriptions, *point* refers to the current cursor position, and *mark* refers to a cursor position saved by the `set-mark` command. The text between the point and mark is referred to as the *region*.

TOC

<!-- TOC -->

- [8.4.1 Moving](#841-moving)
  - [beginning-of-line (C-a)](#beginning-of-line-c-a)
  - [end-of-line (C-e)](#end-of-line-c-e)
  - [forward-char (C-f)](#forward-char-c-f)
  - [backward-char (C-b)](#backward-char-c-b)
  - [forward-word (M-f)](#forward-word-m-f)
  - [backward-word (M-b)](#backward-word-m-b)
  - [shell-forward-word (M-C-f)](#shell-forward-word-m-c-f)
  - [shell-backward-word (M-C-b)](#shell-backward-word-m-c-b)
  - [previous-screen-line ()](#previous-screen-line-)
  - [next-screen-line ()](#next-screen-line-)
  - [clear-display (M-C-l)](#clear-display-m-c-l)
  - [clear-screen (C-l)](#clear-screen-c-l)
  - [redraw-current-line ()](#redraw-current-line-)
- [8.4.2 History](#842-history)
  - [accept-line (NL or RET)](#accept-line-nl-or-ret)
  - [previous-history (C-p)](#previous-history-c-p)
  - [next-history (C-n)](#next-history-c-n)
  - [beginning-of-history (M-<)](#beginning-of-history-m-)
  - [end-of-history (M->)](#end-of-history-m-)
  - [reverse-search-history (C-r)](#reverse-search-history-c-r)
  - [forward-search-history (C-s)](#forward-search-history-c-s)
  - [non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p)](#non-incremental-reverse-search-history-m-p)
  - [non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n)](#non-incremental-forward-search-history-m-n)
  - [history-search-forward ()](#history-search-forward-)
  - [history-search-backward ()](#history-search-backward-)
  - [history-substring-search-forward ()](#history-substring-search-forward-)
  - [history-substring-search-backward ()](#history-substring-search-backward-)
  - [yank-nth-arg (M-C-y)](#yank-nth-arg-m-c-y)
  - [yank-last-arg (M-. or M-_)](#yank-last-arg-m--or-m-_)
  - [operate-and-get-next (C-o)](#operate-and-get-next-c-o)
- [8.4.3 Editing](#843-editing)
  - [end-of-file (usually C-d)](#end-of-file-usually-c-d)
  - [delete-char (C-d)](#delete-char-c-d)
  - [backward-delete-char (RUBOUT)](#backward-delete-char-rubout)
  - [forward-backward-delete-char ()](#forward-backward-delete-char-)
  - [quoted-insert (C-q or C-v)](#quoted-insert-c-q-or-c-v)
  - [self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...)](#self-insert-a-b-a-1--)
  - [bracketed-paste-begin ()](#bracketed-paste-begin-)
  - [transpose-chars (C-t)](#transpose-chars-c-t)
  - [transpose-words (M-t)](#transpose-words-m-t)
  - [upcase-word (M-u)](#upcase-word-m-u)
  - [downcase-word (M-l)](#downcase-word-m-l)
  - [capitalize-word (M-c)](#capitalize-word-m-c)
  - [overwrite-mode ()](#overwrite-mode-)
- [8.4.4 Killing and Yanking](#844-killing-and-yanking)
  - [kill-line (C-k)](#kill-line-c-k)
  - [backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout)](#backward-kill-line-c-x-rubout)
  - [unix-line-discard (C-u)](#unix-line-discard-c-u)
  - [kill-whole-line ()](#kill-whole-line-)
  - [kill-word (M-d)](#kill-word-m-d)
  - [backward-kill-word (M-<DEL>)](#backward-kill-word-m-del)
  - [shell-kill-word (M-C-d)](#shell-kill-word-m-c-d)
  - [shell-backward-kill-word ()](#shell-backward-kill-word-)
  - [shell-transpose-words (M-C-t)](#shell-transpose-words-m-c-t)
  - [unix-word-rubout (C-w)](#unix-word-rubout-c-w)
  - [unix-filename-rubout ()](#unix-filename-rubout-)
  - [delete-horizontal-space ()](#delete-horizontal-space-)
  - [kill-region ()](#kill-region-)
  - [copy-region-as-kill ()](#copy-region-as-kill-)
  - [copy-backward-word ()](#copy-backward-word-)
  - [copy-forward-word ()](#copy-forward-word-)
  - [yank (C-y)](#yank-c-y)
  - [yank-pop (M-y)](#yank-pop-m-y)
- [8.4.5 Numeric arguments](#845-numeric-arguments)
  - [digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ... M--)](#digit-argument-m-0-m-1--m--)
  - [universal-argument ()](#universal-argument-)
- [8.4.6 Completions](#846-completions)
  - [complete (<TAB>)](#complete-tab)
  - [possible-completions (M-?)](#possible-completions-m-)
  - [insert-completions (M-*)](#insert-completions-m-)
  - [menu-complete ()](#menu-complete-)
  - [menu-complete-backward ()](#menu-complete-backward-)
  - [delete-char-or-list ()](#delete-char-or-list-)
  - [complete-filename (M-/)](#complete-filename-m-)
  - [possible-filename-completions (C-x /)](#possible-filename-completions-c-x-)
  - [complete-username (M-~)](#complete-username-m-)
  - [possible-username-completions (C-x ~)](#possible-username-completions-c-x-)
  - [complete-variable (M-$)](#complete-variable-m-)
  - [possible-variable-completions (C-x $)](#possible-variable-completions-c-x-)
  - [complete-hostname (M-@)](#complete-hostname-m-)
  - [possible-hostname-completions (C-x @)](#possible-hostname-completions-c-x-)
  - [complete-command (M-!)](#complete-command-m-)
  - [possible-command-completions (C-x !)](#possible-command-completions-c-x-)
  - [dynamic-complete-history (M-<TAB>)](#dynamic-complete-history-m-tab)
  - [dabbrev-expand ()](#dabbrev-expand-)
  - [complete-into-braces (M-{)](#complete-into-braces-m-)
- [8.4.7 Macros](#847-macros)
  - [start-kbd-macro (C-x ()](#start-kbd-macro-c-x-)
  - [end-kbd-macro (C-x ))](#end-kbd-macro-c-x-)
  - [call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e)](#call-last-kbd-macro-c-x-e)
  - [print-last-kbd-macro ()](#print-last-kbd-macro-)
- [8.4.8 Misc](#848-misc)
  - [re-read-init-file (C-x C-r)](#re-read-init-file-c-x-c-r)
  - [abort (C-g)](#abort-c-g)
  - [do-lowercase-version (M-A, M-B, M-X, ...)](#do-lowercase-version-m-a-m-b-m-x-)
  - [prefix-meta ESC)](#prefix-meta-esc)
  - [undo (C-_ or C-x C-u)](#undo-c-_-or-c-x-c-u)
  - [revert-line (M-r)](#revert-line-m-r)
  - [tilde-expand (M-&)](#tilde-expand-m-)
  - [set-mark (C-@)](#set-mark-c-)
  - [exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x)](#exchange-point-and-mark-c-x-c-x)
  - [character-search `C-]`](#character-search-c-)
  - [character-search-backward `M-C-]`](#character-search-backward-m-c-)
  - [skip-csi-sequence ()](#skip-csi-sequence-)
  - [insert-comment (M-#)](#insert-comment-m-)
  - [dump-functions ()](#dump-functions-)
  - [dump-variables ()](#dump-variables-)
  - [dump-macros ()](#dump-macros-)
  - [glob-complete-word (M-g)](#glob-complete-word-m-g)
  - [glob-expand-word (C-x *)](#glob-expand-word-c-x-)
  - [glob-list-expansions (C-x g)](#glob-list-expansions-c-x-g)
  - [display-shell-version (C-x C-v)](#display-shell-version-c-x-c-v)
  - [shell-expand-line (M-C-e)](#shell-expand-line-m-c-e)
  - [history-expand-line (M-^)](#history-expand-line-m-^)
  - [magic-space ()](#magic-space-)
  - [alias-expand-line ()](#alias-expand-line-)
  - [history-and-alias-expand-line ()](#history-and-alias-expand-line-)
  - [insert-last-argument (M-. or M-_)](#insert-last-argument-m--or-m-_)
  - [edit-and-execute-command (C-x C-e)](#edit-and-execute-command-c-x-c-e)

<!-- /TOC -->

## 8.4.1 Moving

### beginning-of-line (C-a)
Move to the start of the current line.

### end-of-line (C-e)
Move to the end of the line.

### forward-char (C-f)
Move forward a character.

### backward-char (C-b)
Move back a character.

### forward-word (M-f)
Move forward to the end of the next word. 

*Words* are composed of letters and digits.

### backward-word (M-b)
Move back to the start of the current or previous word. 

### shell-forward-word (M-C-f)
Move forward to the end of the next WORD. 

*WORDS* are delimited by non-quoted shell metacharacters.

### shell-backward-word (M-C-b)
Move back to the start of the current or previous WORD.

### previous-screen-line ()
Attempt to move point to the same physical screen column on the previous physical screen line.

This will not have the desired effect if the current Readline line does not take up more than one physical line or if point is not greater than the length of the prompt plus the screen width.

### next-screen-line ()
Attempt to move point to the same physical screen column on the next physical screen line.

This will not have the desired effect if the current Readline line does not take up more than one physical line or if the length of the current Readline line is not greater than the length of the prompt plus the screen width.

### clear-display (M-C-l)
Clear the screen and, if possible, the terminals scrollback buffer, then redraw the current line, leaving the current line at the top of the screen.

### clear-screen (C-l)
Clear the screen, then redraw the current line, leaving the current line at the top of the screen.

### redraw-current-line ()
Refresh the current line. By default, this is unbound.



## 8.4.2 History

### accept-line (NL or RET)
Accept the line regardless of where the cursor is. 

If this line is non-empty, add it to the history list according to the setting of the `HISTCONTROL` and `HISTIGNORE` variables.

If this line is a modified history line, then restore the history line to its original state.

### previous-history (C-p)
Move back through the history list, fetching the previous command.

### next-history (C-n)
Move forward through the history list, fetching the next command.

### beginning-of-history (M-<)
Move to the first line in the history.

### end-of-history (M->)
Move to the end of the input history, i.e. the line currently being entered.

### reverse-search-history (C-r)
Search backward starting at the current line and moving up through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search. 

This command sets the region to the matched text and activates the mark.

### forward-search-history (C-s)
Search forward starting at the current line and moving down through the history as necessary. This is an incremental search.

This command sets the region to the matched text and activates the mark.

### non-incremental-reverse-search-history (M-p)
Search backward starting at the current line and moving UP through the history as necessary using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. The search string may match anywhere in a history line.

### non-incremental-forward-search-history (M-n)
Search forward starting at the current line and moving DOWN through the history as necessary using a non-incremental search for a string supplied by the user. The search string may match anywhere in a history line.

### history-search-forward ()
Search forward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. The search string must match at the beginning of a history line. This is a non-incremental search. By default, this command is unbound.

### history-search-backward ()
Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. The search string must match at the beginning of a history line. This is a non-incremental search. By default, this command is unbound.

### history-substring-search-forward ()
Search forward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. The search string may match anywhere in a history line. This is a non-incremental search. By default, this command is unbound.

### history-substring-search-backward ()
Search backward through the history for the string of characters between the start of the current line and the point. The search string may match anywhere in a history line. This is a non-incremental search. By default, this command is unbound.

### yank-nth-arg (M-C-y)
Insert the first argument to the previous command (usually the second word on the previous line) at point. With an argument N, insert the Nth word from the previous command (the words in the previous command begin with word 0). A negative argument inserts the Nth word from the end of the previous command. Once the argument N is computed, the argument is extracted as if the '!N' history expansion had been specified.

### yank-last-arg (M-. or M-_)
Insert last argument to the previous command (the last word of the previous history entry).

With a numeric argument, behave exactly like `yank-nth-arg`. 

Successive calls to `yank-last-arg` move back through the history list, inserting the last word (or the word specified by the arg to the first call) of each line in turn.

Any numeric argument supplied to these successive calls determines the direction to move through the history. A negative argument switches the direction through the history (back or forward). 

The history expansion facilities are used to extract the last argument, as if the `!$` *history expansion* had been specified.

### operate-and-get-next (C-o)
Accept the current line for return to the calling application as if a newline had been entered, and fetch the next line relative to the current line from the history for editing. A numeric argument, if supplied, specifies the history entry to use instead of the current line.



## 8.4.3 Editing

### end-of-file (usually C-d)
The character indicating end-of-file as set by `stty`. If this character is read when there are no characters on the line, and point is at the beginning of the line, Readline interprets it as the end of input and returns EOF.

### delete-char (C-d)
Delete the character at point. If this function is bound to the same character as the tty EOF character, as `C-d` commonly is, see above for the effects.

### backward-delete-char (RUBOUT)
Delete the character behind the cursor. 
A numeric argument means to kill the characters instead of deleting them.

### forward-backward-delete-char ()
Delete the character under the cursor, unless the cursor is at the end of the line, in which case the character behind the cursor is deleted. By default, this is not bound to a key.

### quoted-insert (C-q or C-v)
Add the next character typed to the line verbatim. 
This is how to insert key sequences like `C-q`, for example.

### self-insert (a, b, A, 1, !, ...)
Insert yourself.

### bracketed-paste-begin ()
This function is intended to be bound to the "bracketed paste" escape sequence sent by some terminals, and such a binding is assigned by default. It allows Readline to insert the pasted text as a single unit without treating each character as if it had been read from the keyboard. The characters are inserted as if each one was bound to 'self-insert' instead of executing any editing commands.

Bracketed paste sets the region (the characters between point and the mark) to the inserted text. It uses the concept of an *active mark*: when the mark is active, Readline redisplay uses the terminal's standout mode to denote the region.

### transpose-chars (C-t)
Drag the character before the cursor forward over the character at the cursor, moving the cursor forward as well. 

If the insertion point is at the end of the line, then this transposes the last two characters of the line. 

Negative arguments have no effect.

### transpose-words (M-t)
Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point past that word as well. 

If the insertion point is at the end of the line, this transposes the last two words on the line.

### upcase-word (M-u)
Uppercase the current (or following) word. 

With a negative arg, uppercase the previous word, but do not move the cursor.

### downcase-word (M-l)
Lowercase the current (or following) word. 
With a negative arg, lowercase the previous word, but do not move the cursor.

### capitalize-word (M-c)
Capitalize the current (or following) word. 
With a negative arg, capitalize the previous word, but do not move the cursor.

### overwrite-mode ()
Toggle overwrite mode. 

With an explicit positive numeric argument, switches to overwrite mode. 

With an explicit non-positive numeric arg, switches to insert mode. 

This command affects only 'emacs' mode; 'vi' mode does overwrite differently; each call to 'readline()' starts in insert mode.

In overwrite mode, characters bound to 'self-insert' replace the text at point rather than pushing the text to the right.

Characters bound to 'backward-delete-char' replace the character before point with a space.

By default, this command is unbound.


## 8.4.4 Killing and Yanking

### kill-line (C-k)
Kill the text from point to the end of the line. With a negative
numeric argument, kill backward from the cursor to the beginning of
the current line.

### backward-kill-line (C-x Rubout)
Kill backward from the cursor to the beginning of the current line.
With a negative numeric argument, kill forward from the cursor to
the end of the current line.

### unix-line-discard (C-u)
Kill backward from the cursor to the beginning of the current line.

### kill-whole-line ()
Kill all characters on the current line, no matter where point is.
By default, this is unbound.

### kill-word (M-d)
Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between
words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same
as 'forward-word'.

### backward-kill-word (M-<DEL>)
Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as
'backward-word'.

### shell-kill-word (M-C-d)
Kill from point to the end of the current word, or if between
words, to the end of the next word. Word boundaries are the same
as 'shell-forward-word'.

### shell-backward-kill-word ()
Kill the word behind point. Word boundaries are the same as
'shell-backward-word'.

### shell-transpose-words (M-C-t)
Drag the word before point past the word after point, moving point
past that word as well. If the insertion point is at the end of
the line, this transposes the last two words on the line. Word
boundaries are the same as 'shell-forward-word' and
'shell-backward-word'.

### unix-word-rubout (C-w)
Kill the word behind point, using white space as a word boundary.
The killed text is saved on the kill-ring.

### unix-filename-rubout ()
Kill the word behind point, using white space and the slash
character as the word boundaries. The killed text is saved on the
kill-ring.

### delete-horizontal-space ()
Delete all spaces and tabs around point. By default, this is
unbound.

### kill-region ()
Kill the text in the current region. By default, this command is
unbound.

### copy-region-as-kill ()
Copy the text in the region to the kill buffer, so it can be yanked
right away. By default, this command is unbound.

### copy-backward-word ()
Copy the word before point to the kill buffer. The word boundaries
are the same as 'backward-word'. By default, this command is
unbound.

### copy-forward-word ()
Copy the word following point to the kill buffer. The word
boundaries are the same as 'forward-word'. By default, this
command is unbound.

### yank (C-y)
Yank the top of the kill ring into the buffer at point.

### yank-pop (M-y)
Rotate the kill-ring, and yank the new top. You can only do this
if the prior command is 'yank' or 'yank-pop'.


## 8.4.5 Numeric arguments

### digit-argument (M-0, M-1, ... M--)
Add this digit to the argument already accumulating, or start a new
argument. 'M--' starts a negative argument.

### universal-argument ()
This is another way to specify an argument. If this command is
followed by one or more digits, optionally with a leading minus
sign, those digits define the argument. If the command is followed
by digits, executing 'universal-argument' again ends the numeric
argument, but is otherwise ignored. As a special case, if this
command is immediately followed by a character that is neither a
digit nor minus sign, the argument count for the next command is
multiplied by four. The argument count is initially one, so
executing this function the first time makes the argument count
four, a second time makes the argument count sixteen, and so on.
By default, this is not bound to a key.


## 8.4.6 Completions

### complete (<TAB>)
Attempt to perform completion on the text before point. The actual
completion performed is application-specific. Bash attempts
completion treating the text as a variable (if the text begins with
'$'), username (if the text begins with '~'), hostname (if the text
begins with '@'), or command (including aliases and functions) in
turn. If none of these produces a match, filename completion is
attempted.

### possible-completions (M-?)
List the possible completions of the text before point. When
displaying completions, Readline sets the number of columns used
for display to the value of 'completion-display-width', the value
of the environment variable 'COLUMNS', or the screen width, in that
order.

### insert-completions (M-*)
Insert all completions of the text before point that would have
been generated by 'possible-completions'.

### menu-complete ()
Similar to 'complete', but replaces the word to be completed with a
single match from the list of possible completions. Repeated
execution of 'menu-complete' steps through the list of possible
completions, inserting each match in turn. At the end of the list
of completions, the bell is rung (subject to the setting of
'bell-style') and the original text is restored. An argument of N
moves N positions forward in the list of matches; a negative
argument may be used to move backward through the list. This
command is intended to be bound to <TAB>, but is unbound by
default.

### menu-complete-backward ()
Identical to 'menu-complete', but moves backward through the list
of possible completions, as if 'menu-complete' had been given a
negative argument.

### delete-char-or-list ()
Deletes the character under the cursor if not at the beginning or
end of the line (like 'delete-char'). If at the end of the line,
behaves identically to 'possible-completions'. This command is
unbound by default.

### complete-filename (M-/)
Attempt filename completion on the text before point.

### possible-filename-completions (C-x /)
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
as a filename.

### complete-username (M-~)
Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
username.

### possible-username-completions (C-x ~)
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
as a username.

### complete-variable (M-$)
Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a shell
variable.

### possible-variable-completions (C-x $)
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
as a shell variable.

### complete-hostname (M-@)
Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
hostname.

### possible-hostname-completions (C-x @)
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
as a hostname.

### complete-command (M-!)
Attempt completion on the text before point, treating it as a
command name. Command completion attempts to match the text
against aliases, reserved words, shell functions, shell builtins,
and finally executable filenames, in that order.

### possible-command-completions (C-x !)
List the possible completions of the text before point, treating it
as a command name.

### dynamic-complete-history (M-<TAB>)
Attempt completion on the text before point, comparing the text
against lines from the history list for possible completion
matches.

### dabbrev-expand ()
Attempt menu completion on the text before point, comparing the
text against lines from the history list for possible completion
matches.

### complete-into-braces (M-{)
Perform filename completion and insert the list of possible
completions enclosed within braces so the list is available to the
shell (Brace Expansion).


## 8.4.7 Macros

### start-kbd-macro (C-x ()
Begin saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro.

### end-kbd-macro (C-x ))
Stop saving the characters typed into the current keyboard macro
and save the definition.

### call-last-kbd-macro (C-x e)
Re-execute the last keyboard macro defined, by making the
characters in the macro appear as if typed at the keyboard.

### print-last-kbd-macro ()
Print the last keboard macro defined in a format suitable for the
INPUTRC file.


## 8.4.8 Misc

### re-read-init-file (C-x C-r)
Read in the contents of the INPUTRC file, and incorporate any
bindings or variable assignments found there.

### abort (C-g)
Abort the current editing command and ring the terminal's bell
(subject to the setting of 'bell-style').

### do-lowercase-version (M-A, M-B, M-X, ...)
If the metafied character X is upper case, run the command that is
bound to the corresponding metafied lower case character. The
behavior is undefined if X is already lower case.

### prefix-meta ESC)
Metafy the next character typed. This is for keyboards without a meta key. Typing 'ESC f' is equivalent to typing 'M-f'.

### undo (C-_ or C-x C-u)
Incremental undo, separately remembered for each line.

### revert-line (M-r)
Undo all changes made to this line. This is like executing the
'undo' command enough times to get back to the beginning.

### tilde-expand (M-&)
Perform tilde expansion on the current word.

### set-mark (C-@)
Set the mark to the point. If a numeric argument is supplied, the
mark is set to that position.

### exchange-point-and-mark (C-x C-x)
Swap the point with the mark. The current cursor position is set
to the saved position, and the old cursor position is saved as the
mark.

### character-search `C-]`
A character is read and point is moved to the next occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for previous occurrences.

### character-search-backward `M-C-]`
A character is read and point is moved to the previous occurrence of that character. A negative count searches for subsequent occurrences.

### skip-csi-sequence ()
Read enough characters to consume a multi-key sequence such as those defined for keys like Home and End. 

Such sequences begin with *Control Sequence Indicator* (CSI), `ESC-[`. 

If this sequence is bound to `\e[`, keys producing such sequences will have no effect unless explicitly bound to a readline command, instead of inserting stray characters into the editing buffer. 

This is unbound by default, but usually bound to `ESC-[`.

### insert-comment (M-#)
Without a numeric argument, the value of `comment-begin` is inserted at the beginning of the current line. 

If a numeric argument is supplied, this command acts as a toggle: if chars at BOL do not match the value of `comment-begin`, the value is inserted, else chars in `comment-begin` are deleted from BOL.

In either case, the line is accepted as if a NL had been typed. 

The default value of `comment-begin` causes this command to make the current line a shell comment.

If a numeric argument causes the comment character to be removed, the line will be executed by the shell.

### dump-functions ()
Print all of the functions and their key bindings to the Readline output stream. If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an *inputrc* file. This command is unbound by default.


### dump-variables ()
Print all of the settable variables and their values to the Readline output stream. 

If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an INPUTRC file. 

This command is unbound by default.

### dump-macros ()
Print all of the Readline key sequences bound to macros and the strings they output. 

If a numeric argument is supplied, the output is formatted in such a way that it can be made part of an INPUTRC file. 

This command is unbound by default.

### glob-complete-word (M-g)
The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, with an asterisk implicitly appended. 

This pattern is used to generate a list of matching file names for possible
completions.

### glob-expand-word (C-x *)
The word before point is treated as a pattern for pathname expansion, and the list of matching file names is inserted, replacing the word. 

If a numeric argument is supplied, a `*` is appended before pathname expansion.

### glob-list-expansions (C-x g)
The list of expansions that would have been generated by `glob-expand-word` is displayed, and the line is redrawn. 

If a numeric argument is supplied, a `*` is appended before pathname expansion.

### display-shell-version (C-x C-v)
Display version information about the current instance of Bash.

### shell-expand-line (M-C-e)
Expand the line as the shell does. 
This performs alias and history expansion and shell word expansions.

### history-expand-line (M-^)
Perform history expansion.

### magic-space ()
Perform history expansion on the current line and insert a space.

### alias-expand-line ()
Perform alias expansion.

### history-and-alias-expand-line ()
Perform history and alias expansion.

### insert-last-argument (M-. or M-_)
A synonym for `yank-last-arg`.

### edit-and-execute-command (C-x C-e)
Invoke the editor on the current command line, and execute the result as shell commands (by exiting from the editor).

Bash attempts to invoke `VISUAL`, `EDITOR`, and 'emacs' as the editor, in that order.
