# Programmable completion variables

https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/html_node/Bash-Variables.html


## COMP_CWORD
An index into ${COMP_WORDS} of the word containing the current cursor position. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion).

## COMP_LINE
The current command line. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion).

## COMP_POINT
The index of the current cursor position relative to the beginning of the current command. If the current cursor position is at the end of the current command, the value of this variable is equal to ${#COMP_LINE}. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion).

## COMP_TYPE
Set to an integer value corresponding to the type of completion attempted that caused a completion function to be called: TAB, for normal completion, '?', for listing completions after successive tabs, '!', for listing alternatives on partial word completion, '@', to list completions if the word is not unmodified, or '%', for menu completion. This variable is available only in shell functions and external commands invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion).

## COMP_KEY
The key (or final key of a key sequence) used to invoke the current completion function.

## COMP_WORDBREAKS
The set of characters that the Readline library treats as word separators when performing word completion. If COMP_WORDBREAKS is unset, it loses its special properties, even if it is subsequently reset.

## COMP_WORDS
An array variable consisting of the individual words in the current command line. The line is split into words as Readline would split it, using COMP_WORDBREAKS as described above. This variable is available only in shell functions invoked by the programmable completion facilities (see Programmable Completion).

## COMPREPLY
An array variable from which Bash reads the possible completions generated by a shell function invoked by the programmable completion facility (see Programmable Completion). Each array element contains one possible completion.

## EXECIGNORE
A **colon-separated list of shell patterns** 
defining the list of filenames 
which are ignored by **command search using `PATH`**.

>Files whose full pathnames match one of these patterns are not considered executable files for the purposes of *completion* and *command execution* via PATH lookup.

This does not affect the behavior of the `[`, `test`, and `[[` commands.

Full pathnames in the *command hash table* (`BASH_CMDS`) are not subject to `EXECIGNORE`.

The pattern matching honors the setting of the `extglob` shell option.

For example, configure this to ignore shared library files that have the executable bit set, but are not executable files.

## FIGNORE
A **colon-separated list of suffixes** 
which are ignored when performing *filename completion*.

A filename whose suffix matches one of the entries in FIGNORE is excluded from the list of matched filenames. 

For example, `FIGNORE=.o:~` ignores filenames suffixed with `~`, and files ending in `.o` (compilation object files).

## HOSTFILE
Contains the name of a file in the same format as `/etc/hosts` 
that should be read when the shell needs to *complete a hostname*.

The list of possible hostname completions may be changed while the shell is running; the next time hostname completion is attempted after the value is changed, Bash adds the contents of the new file to the existing list.

If HOSTFILE is set, but has no value, or does not name a readable file, Bash attempts to read /etc/hosts to obtain the list of possible hostname completions.

When HOSTFILE is unset, the hostname list is cleared.
