# 8. Command Line Editing

from bash 5.2 manual at:   
https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html#Command-Line-Editing

This chapter describes the basic features of the *command line editing interface*.

Command line editing is provided by the `Readline` library, which is used by several different programs, including Bash.

*Command line editing* is enabled by default when using an *interactive shell*, unless the `--noediting` option is supplied at shell invocation. Line editing is also used when using the `-e` option to the `read` builtin command.

By default, the line editing commands are similar to those of Emacs. A *vi-style line editing interface* is also available.

Line editing mode can be changed using the `set` builtin:
- `set -o emacs` Enable emacs mode
- `set -o vi`    Enable vi mode
- `set +o emacs` Disable emacs mode (so...enable vi mode??)
- `set +o vi`    Disable vi mode (so...enable emacs mode??)

Contents
- Introduction to Line Editing
- Readline Interaction
- Readline Init File
- Bindable Readline Commands
- Readline vi Mode
- Programmable Completion
- Programmable Completion Builtins
- A Programmable Completion Example

## 8.1 Introduction to Line Editing

Notation used to represent keystrokes
- `c-k` is the Ctrl-K keyseq
- `m-k` is the Meta-K keyseq


The *Meta key* is a modifier key, present on the keyboards of the past. Modern keyboards lack a dedicated Meta key, but its role is usually taken by the *Alt* key. There are usually 2 Alt keys on modern keyboards - the right Alt is labelled *AltGr* and it may be configured to help enter accents (or as a dead key, or as a compose key) - thus, the left Alt key usually play the role of the Meta key. Therefore, `m-k` means `Alt+k`, but the identical keystroke can be generated by typing and releasing `ESC`, and then typing `k` (as `ESC k` - note the lack of dash that indicates a key combo). Either process is known as **metafying a key** (i.e. metafying the `k` key).

>But what does metafying a key actually do?
